
UNITED ANATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/50/798
1 December 1995

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Fiftieth session
Agenda item 138

ADMINISTRATIVE AND BUDGETARY ASPECTS OF THE FINANCING
OF THE UNITED NATIONS PEACE-KEEPING OPERATIONS

Report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative
and Budgetary Questions

1. The Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions has
considered the note by the Secretary-General (A/50/319), which contained a
mock-up budget for a single peace-keeping operation submitted in response to
General Assembly resolution 49/233 A of 23 December 1994. During its
consideration of the note, the Advisory Committee met with the Controller and
other representatives of the Secretary-General who provided additional
information on the matter. 

2. The Advisory Committee also reviewed a working paper submitted by the
Secretariat containing the Standard Ratios and Costs Manual which was used in
the preparation of the mock-up budget. During its deliberations, the Advisory
Committee raised numerous questions and commented extensively on the various
aspects of the Manual. The Advisory Committee was informed that the Manual
would be revised by the Secretariat to reflect the Advisory Committee's comments
and observations. The Advisory Committee trusts that the revision of the Manual
will be undertaken expeditiously so that the Committee can review a revised
version of the Manual, in the framework of the existing policy, before the end
of 1995.

3. The Advisory Committee welcomes the efforts of the Secretary-General to
modify and rationalize the format of peace-keeping budgets. The Advisory
Committee is of the view that the proposed mock-up budget represents a positive
development in this process. In the course of its consideration of the mock-up
budget, the Advisory Committee made a number of comments and observations and
raised questions; on some of these the Controller provided further clarification
in his follow-up note. The Controller's note is reproduced in the annex to the
present report.

95-38264 (E) 041295 /...



A/50/798
English
Page 2

4. In an oral statement before the Advisory Committee, the Controller stated
that the Secretariat had started preparing budget submissions for peace-keeping
operations to be presented for the financial period to start on 1 July 1996 on
the basis of the format proposed in the mock-up budget for a single peace-
keeping operation. The format would take into account comments, observations
and recommendations of the Advisory Committee, as approved by the Fifth
Committee of the General Assembly. The Advisory Committee welcomes the
Controller's statement, namely, that the dialogue between the Secretariat and
the Advisory Committee on the format of budget of peace-keeping operations
should continue during the preparation and, especially, review of specific
budget submissions for peace-keeping operations.

5. The Advisory Committee's comments in the paragraphs below are intended to
assist in the preparation of future peace-keeping budgets and are not an attempt
to substitute an alternate mock-up budget for that submitted by the Secretary-
General. The Advisory Committee expects that in preparing future budgets for
peace-keeping operations, the Secretariat will take into account the comments
and observations of the Advisory Committee as well as such further guidance as
the Fifth Committee may wish to provide. The Advisory Committee intends to
revert to the question of the format of peace-keeping budgets in the context of
its analysis of the budgets of specific peace-keeping operations.

6. The Advisory Committee's analysis shows the need to establish and explain
the linkage between the political mandate of a mission and its operational
requirements. Budget submissions should provide a brief update of the political
situation in the mission area and the latest developments which affect the
operational plan and resource requirements. The Advisory Committee recalls in
this connection that the Secretary-General had intended to include in a mock-up
budget for an annual peace-keeping operation budget a separate section to
explain the "conversion" of a political mandate into an operational plan, taking
into account mission-specific information (see A/49/664, para. 43 (c)). 
Although this has not been done, the Advisory Committee recommends that this
information be included in future budget submissions for peace-keeping
operations.

7. Budgets of peace-keeping operations should clearly identify activities that
are considered to be essential to the implementation of specific mandates
emanating from the Security Council and activities undertaken in support of and
in conjunction with the mandated activities; they should also refer to the role
of the different departments within the Secretariat and the United Nations
system of organizations, agencies and programmes in the implementation and
coordination of their related activities in the mission area. Furthermore, the
mock-up budget should specify any support to be provided to United Nations
peace-keeping operations by regional organizations.

8. The Advisory Committee trusts that the content of future budget submissions
for peace-keeping operations will be arranged in a concise and organized manner
and that resource requirements will be fully justified, rather than merely
described. The Advisory Committee also points out that although the
presentation of information in the form of tables and graphs should be
encouraged, these should not substitute for written explanations of resource
requirements in budget submissions for peace-keeping operations.

/...



A/50/798
English
Page 3

9. The mock-up budget did not provide a detailed description of activities
financed from voluntary contributions. In this regard, a clear distinction
should be made between voluntary contributions which would result in a reduced
assessment and contributions for items of expenditure not otherwise budgeted. 
In this connection, the Advisory Committee reiterates its previous
recommendation that "the Secretary-General should develop an improved
presentation of voluntary contributions and a description and cost estimates of
activities financed from voluntary contributions and other sources" (see
A/49/664, para. 46).

10. The mock-up budget should have reflected a comprehensive picture of the
cash situation of the mission, including data on unliquidated obligations, the
latest data on the status of Member States' contributions and on all borrowing
from the peace-keeping reserve fund. 

11. Information should have been included on the implementation of the host
country agreement, in so far as it relates to the administration of the peace-
keeping operation, as required by the General Assembly in section V,
paragraph 3, of its resolution 49/233 A. The Advisory Committee is of the view
that a mere indication that a status-of-forces agreement has been signed is not
sufficient; information should be given on the administrative and financial
implications resulting from the agreement.

12. Subject to the decision the General Assembly will take on the question of
the transfer of assets, budgets of peace-keeping operations should include
detailed information on the number of vehicles and all other equipment to be
transferred from the United Nations stock piles and from other peace-keeping
operations.

13. The mock-up budget should provide information on budget performance for
previous periods and the latest available financial data for the period in
progress. In this connection, the Advisory Committee reiterates its view
reflected in paragraph 38 of its report in document A/49/664 that:

"... financial performance data should also be available for at least
the first six months of each peace-keeping operation budget; this would be
presented to the Committee and the General Assembly before the budget for
the next period is considered and should contain a concise analysis of
mission implementation as compared to operational plans, information on
deployment of various categories of military personnel and civilian staff,
identification of areas that are outside the normal operating parameters
and standards set by the standard cost manual and any such information
which could be helpful in evaluating the development of a peace-keeping
operation. Its purpose would be to provide the Committee with the latest
information on developments related to the assumptions underlying the
current budget and the financial impact so that the Committee could form a
reasonable opinion on the assumptions which form the basis for the proposed
budget."

The Advisory Committee trusts that the financial data will be structured in such
a way as to facilitate comparison with requirements contained in budget
submissions.

/...



A/50/798
English
Page 4

ANNEX

Administrative and budgetary aspects of the financing
of the United Nations peace-keeping operations

Note by the Controller

1. The present note is submitted as clarification to the sections of the mock-
up budget contained in document A/50/319 of 1 August 1995. Certain suggestions
made by the Advisory Committee during its consideration of this item have been
incorporated.

2. The intent of the main body of the report is to provide the General
Assembly with the necessary concise information and data with which the Assembly
would assure itself that its review and decision-making process for peace-
keeping financing was on the basis of full information.

I. INTRODUCTION

3. For a newly established operation, this section would provide summarized
information on the circumstances that led to the Security Council's decision for
the establishment of the mission, with references to the relevant documentation
to the General Assembly and/or the Security Council.

4. For ongoing operations, it would provide a summary of developments in the
mission, recommendations of the Secretary-General to the Security Council and
decisions of the Security Council covering the period since the submission of
the last budget and the present time; the prior action of the General Assembly
as regards financing of the operation and the related documentary references.

II. POLITICAL MANDATE

5. This section would state/restate the current political mandate of the
operation as decided by the Security Council, with particular reference to
changes since the last report.

III. OPERATIONAL PLAN AND REQUIREMENTS

6. The current responsibilities of the mission and the major tasks to be
undertaken to implement the political mandate during the budgeted period would
be indicated. This section would provide explanation on the operational plan,
including the deployment of military personnel and their locations and the
locations of logistic bases. Efforts would be made to explain, to the extent
possible, the major tasks and the requirements, including the proposed numbers
of military and civilian personnel who were needed to fulfil the tasks.

/...



A/50/798
English
Page 5

7. Special programmes/requirements such as human rights, humanitarian, mine
clearing and cantonment of troops, directly linked to the mandate of the
operation, would be explained under this section.

8. In indicating the operational requirements, reference would be made to
relevant paragraphs contained in the reports of the Secretary-General to the
Security Council as well as the latter's decisions on the deployment of the
operation, which would form the basis for the cost estimate.

IV. STATUS OF ASSESSED CONTRIBUTIONS

V. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS AND TRUST FUNDS

VI. FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION

9. These three sections deal with the financial status of the operation. 
Consideration would be given to alternative presentation of the information
contained in tables 1 and 2 so that all relevant data would be found in a single
table.

10. Section IV, which deals with the status of assessed contributions, would
provide cross-reference to appropriate lines in annex VII.

11. Section V on voluntary contributions to the special account of the
operation would be cross-referenced to annex VIII, part A. Voluntary
contributions in kind would also be indicated. Information on contributions
update to related trust funds, together with a brief description of the purposes
for which the trust funds were established, would be provided.

12. Section VI on financial administration would summarize in tabular form
total resources made available to the operation since inception, total operating
costs and balance of unutilized resources, if any.

               VII. COST ESTIMATES FOR THE PERIOD FROM 1 JULY 1995
                     TO 30 JUNE 1996

13. This section would provide a summary of the cost estimates by sector of
expenditure (if appropriate) for the budgeted period in tabular form. Table 4
would be expanded to show the level of resources provided for the prior
financial period. This would provide a basis for comparison of the resources
for two periods and show known changes in resources at the time of preparation
of the cost estimates which were being requested for the new budget period. 
Explanations for such major changes and other significant new elements in the
cost estimates for the budgeted period would be provided. Implementation of the
recommendations of the Advisory Committee and of the Fifth Committee which
affect the cost estimates would be stated in this section.

/...



A/50/798
English
Page 6

VIII. STAFFING REQUIREMENTS

14. Information on the changes in staffing requirements would be indicated
under this section with appropriate tables showing changes between the current
and proposed staffing establishment and, where appropriate, the manner of their
distribution. This section would be supplemented by annex VI, which would
provide detailed justification for additional staffing requirements.

IX. STATUS OF REIMBURSEMENT TO TROOP-CONTRIBUTING GOVERNMENTS

15. The troop contributors to the operation would be listed and necessary
information provided as regards status of reimbursement for troop costs. This
section would be moved so that it followed after current section VI.

             X. OBSERVATIONS AND COMMENTS ON PREVIOUS RECOMMENDATIONS
                 OF THE ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON ADMINISTRATIVE AND
                 BUDGETARY QUESTIONS

16. This section would include those observations and recommendations of a
general nature made by the Advisory Committee that had not been specifically
addressed in the section on cost estimates.

XI. STATUS-OF-FORCES AGREEMENTS

17. This section would indicate whether or not status-of-forces agreements have
been signed by the Governments on whose territories the operation was deployed. 
This section would be moved so that it followed after the current section VI and
current section IX (see para. 15 above).

                 XII. ACTION TO BE TAKEN BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY
                       AT ITS FIFTIETH SESSION

18. This section would set out the action to be taken by the General Assembly
at the current session, including amounts to be appropriated or authorized for
the operation of the mission, amounts to be assessed and amounts to be credited
to Member States against their assessments.

XIII. ANNEXES TO THE REPORT

19. Annex I would be required in cases where the Security Council had made
several decisions expanding the mandate of the operation or enlarging/reducing
the size of the military strength. If there were only the establishment of the
operation with subsequent extensions, this annex would not be required (see also
paras. 3 and 4 above).

20. In annex II, cost estimates for the budgeted period, an additional column
would be inserted to include the prior amounts approved for the operation. This

/...



A/50/798
English
Page 7

would provide a comparison with the cost estimates for the budgeted period. The
grouping of the current 21 major line items could be rearranged to take into
consideration any agreed recommendation by the Advisory Committee, for example,
including civilian personnel costs with miliary personnel costs or leaving
civilian personnel costs as a separate item; combining transport, air and naval
operations as one item with three or more parts; or combining special programmes
under one item with subsections.

21. In section A of annex III, cost parameters, the title would be changed to
"Cost parameters: mission specific". The presentation of this table would be
modified so that, where appropriate, information on the same item (numbers,
quantities and applicable dollar rates) would be shown together instead of in
the separate, sequential presentation currently shown in annex III A of the
mock-up document.

22. In section B of annex III, variations from standard ratios/costs, would
highlight major variations from the standard ratios and would be expanded to
reflect major variations from standard costs.

23. Section C of annex III, monthly breakdown of resources, currently provides
numbers of personnel and equipment of a recurrent nature as well as the related
estimated costs by month on the basis of which the total requirements for the
budget period were derived. Instead, with a view to providing a clearer
indication of the number of personnel assigned to the operation which determines
the resources required to support the operation, the section should provide
graphical representation of the deployment of personnel with numeric indications
as appropriate. This would facilitate linkage by the reader between changes in
the number of personnel and the consequential additional resource requirements
arrived at through application of standard ratios and costs.

24. Moreover, when the cost estimates for the mission were at maintenance
level, annex III C should only provide the total annual resource requirements
and the corresponding monthly cost estimates. Only when, on the basis of known
information at budget preparation time, the mission's requirements were expected
to fluctuate widely, would resource requirements be presented on a monthly or
quarterly basis. Consequently, annex III C would be drastically reduced.

25. In section D of annex III, requirements for non-recurrent costs, in
addition to the table, there should be a brief justification of additional
requirements and an indication of roll-over of any goods and services included
from prior budgeted periods, as well as offsetting requirements resulting from
stock transfers from Brindisi or other peace-keeping missions.

26. Section E of annex III, supplemental explanation, would be expanded to
provide justification for non-staff items that were not easily explained from
the application of standard ratios and/or standard costs. 

27. No changes are proposed for the remaining annexes IV-VIII.

28. Finally, it is reiterated that while the Standard Ratios and Costs Manual
would provide the primary guiding basis for the preparation of the Secretary-
General's budget estimates and performance reports, its application and use

/...



A/50/798
English
Page 8

would take full account as well of actual procurement and usage experience and
data available, including the particular operating milieu and circumstances of
the mission.

-----


