
UNITEDUNITED ANATIONSNATIONS
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/51/491
14 October 1996

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Fifty-first session
Agenda items 129 and 140 (a)

FINANCING OF THE UNITED NATIONS PROTECTION FORCE, THE
UNITED NATIONS CONFIDENCE RESTORATION OPERATION IN
CROATIA, THE UNITED NATIONS PREVENTIVE DEPLOYMENT FORCE
AND THE UNITED NATIONS PEACE FORCES HEADQUARTERS

ADMINISTRATIVE AND BUDGETARY ASPECTS OF THE FINANCING OF
THE UNITED NATIONS PEACEKEEPING OPERATIONS: FINANCING

OF THE UNITED NATIONS PEACEKEEPING OPERATIONS

Report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative
and Budgetary Questions

1. The Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions has
considered the report of the Secretary-General (A/51/389) submitted pursuant to
paragraph 16 of General Assembly resolution 50/235 of 7 June 1996, in which the
Assembly requested the Secretary-General to develop revised cost estimates for
third-party claims and adjustments, following completion of the thorough study
to be completed by the Legal Counsel.

2. The report of the Secretary-General addresses the issues raised by the
Advisory Committee in paragraph 20 of its report of 6 May 1996 (A/50/903/Add.1),
wherein it recommended that the Secretary-General develop and propose during the
fifty-first session of the General Assembly appropriate measures and procedures
which would provide for a simple, efficient and prompt settlement of third-party
claims, secure United Nations interests, limit its liabilities and allow for a
coordinated approach to this issue on the part of the United Nations
organizations, agencies and programmes.

3. During its consideration of the Secretary-General’s report, the Advisory
Committee met with representatives of the Secretary-General who provided
clarifications and additional information. The Committee commends the
Secretariat for the report and trusts that follow-up measures, as may be
necessary, will be taken promptly by the Secretariat.

96-27546 (E) 151096 /...



A/51/491
English
Page 2

4. The Advisory Committee notes from the footnote to paragraph 3 of the
Secretary-General’s report that third-party claims, for the purpose of the
report, did not include claims arising within the context of a contractual or
other direct legal relationship between the claimant and the United Nations.
Claims arising from contracts or leases were, therefore, excluded from the
study.

5. The Secretary-General’s study of the scope of United Nations liability for
the activities of United Nations forces is described in relation to the types of
damage most commonly encountered in the practice of United Nations operations,
that is, non-consensual use and occupancy of premises, personal injury and
property loss or damage arising from the ordinary operation of the force, and
such injury and damage as result from combat operations.

6. In paragraphs 6 to 8 of his report (A/51/389), the Secretary-General
outlines the principle of United Nations liability for the activities of its
forces, in conformity with section 29 of the Convention on the Privileges and
Immunities of the United Nations. As stated in paragraph 7 of the report, the
United Nations has, since the inception of peacekeeping operations, assumed its
liability for damage caused by members of its forces in the performance of their
duties and it has undertaken in article 51 of the model status-of-forces
agreement to settle by means of a standing claims commission claims resulting
from damage caused by members of the force in the performance of their official
duties.

7. At the same time, as indicated in paragraph 13 of the report, the liability
of the Organization for property loss and damage caused by United Nations forces
in the ordinary operation of the force is subject to the exception of
"operational necessity", that is, where damage results from necessary actions
taken by a peacekeeping force in the course of carrying out its operation in
pursuance of its mandate. Paragraph 14 of the report outlines parameters that
must be taken into account in deciding upon the operational necessity of any
given measure.

8. The Advisory Committee welcomes the development of the concept of
"operational necessity" which has been formally presented in a document for the
first time, although it has already been applied in the practice of Claim Review
Boards as an exception from liability. The Committee welcomes the proposal of
the Secretary-General to formally incorporate the exemption due to "operational
necessity" in article 51 of the model status-of-forces agreement.

9. The Advisory Committee notes from the observations reflected in
paragraph 22 of the report that, to date, third-party claims of a private law
nature have been settled without resort to the establishment of standing claims
commissions provided for under article 51 of the model status-of-forces
agreement. The Committee requests that the Secretary-General review the current
provisions of article 51 which have proved to be unrealistic or ineffective,
with a view to proposing, in the light of the acquired experience in this
matter, new procedures for the handling of this type of third-party claim.

10. In paragraphs 38 to 44 of his report, the Secretary-General discusses
several means of limiting the liability of the Organization, such as financial

/...



A/51/491
English
Page 3

and temporal limitation, counter-claims and off-sets, and recovery from the
States contributing contingents in specific cases of gross negligence, wilful
misconduct or international criminal responsibility on the part of a member of
the force. The Advisory Committee concurs in the view of the Secretary-General
with regard to the financial and temporal limitations, although such aspects of
the limitations as the ceiling of compensation, modalities of establishing the
financial limitation of the Organization and duration of the limitation period
must be further studied.

11. With regard to the issue of counter-claims and off-sets outlined in
paragraph 41 of the report, the Advisory Committee notes situations in which the
United Nations has claims against the host Government, arising out of payments
made by the Organization, which it was under no legal obligation to make, in
order to enable the mission to continue to function. The Committee recalls that
the Board of Auditors, in paragraphs 129 and 130 of its report on the accounts
of the United Nations peacekeeping operations for the biennium ended
31 December 1995, 1/ indicated that the United Nations Protection Force
(UNPROFOR) had paid excise duty on its purchase of petroleum, oil and lubricants
since 1 October 1993, contrary to the status-of-forces agreement and United
Nations general conditions on contracts, and that the duty, which was paid under
protest to avoid uninterrupted supply of fuel to UNPROFOR, was estimated to
amount to $37 million by 31 March 1996. The Committee points out that such
claims are not counter-claims; they are requests for restitution arising out of
non-compliance by the host Government with agreements previously entered into;
as such they should be vigorously pursued whether or not any claim exists by
that Government. The Committee requests that it be provided with a compendium
of all instances where the United Nations is entitled to restitution as the
result of non-compliance with status-of-forces or other agreements.

12. With regard to the cost estimates contained in paragraphs 49 to 53 of the
report, the Advisory Committee notes that the amount of $10 million authorized
for the period from 1 January to 30 June 1996 and the amount of $5.5 million
contained in the cost estimates for the period from 1 July 1996 to 30 June 1997
are considered by the Secretary-General to be adequate at the present stage for
the settlement of claims, based on the number of actual claims received since
the cost estimates were prepared, the rate at which claims continue to be
received by the United Nations Peace Forces (UNPF) headquarters, the number of
claims that have been settled or closed and the number and value of outstanding
claims (para. 53).

13. The Advisory Committee also notes from paragraph 26 of the Secretary-
General’s report that:

"Recent United Nations operations have encountered an increasing
number of claims being filed against the Organization. Some of these
claims are substantial, involving potentially high amounts of compensation
to be paid by the Organization. The number of low-value claims, as well as
the number of frivolous claims, have also increased, notably in missions
such as the United Nations Operation in Somalia and UNPF".

The Committee was informed that the undocumented claims listed in the submission
of 11 May 1996 of the Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina amount to a total of

/...



A/51/491
English
Page 4

$70.7 million (see annex). This sort of information is, in the view of the
Committee, compelling evidence of the need for the United Nations to develop, as
quickly as possible, effective measures which could limit its liability.

14. Furthermore, the Advisory Committee notes from paragraph 52 of the report
that a total of 151 claims remain pending in UNPF, which include 37 cases
amounting to $28.8 million, and that the claims are not presented in a way that
allows the individual elements of work to be identified. The Committee
recommends that the Organization establish a standard format in which claims
must be prepared if they are to be considered by the United Nations. This will
allow claimants to present information in a standard and verifiable manner and
will facilitate the processing of claims by the United Nations.

15. The Advisory Committee recommends that the General Assembly endorse the
proposals and recommendations regarding limitations on the liability of the
Organization contained in paragraphs 38 to 44 of the report of the Secretary-
General (A/51/389), taking into account the Committee’s observations in the
preceding paragraphs. The Secretary-General should be requested to develop
specific measures, including criteria and guidelines for implementing the
principles outlined in his report and to report thereon to the General Assembly
through the Advisory Committee.

Notes

1/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-first Session,
Supplement No. 5 (A/51/5), vol. II.

/...



A/51/491
English
Page 5

Annex

UNDOCUMENTED CLAIMS LISTED IN THE SUBMISSION OF 11 MAY 1996
OF THE GOVERNMENT OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA

Claimant Description of claim

Amount
(United States

dollars)
Action

taken/status

Drina Construction
Company, Gorazde

Unpaid bill for delivered
building material

104 395 No record

Ministry of
Agriculture, Igman
Mountain, Malo and
Veliko Polje

Unnecessary woodcutting and
expenses for reforestation

798 900 No record

201-84 (Sarajevo
Olympic Committee)

Damage to sport and touristic
facilities in Mount Igman

2 480 000 No record

Marshal Tito Barracks Damage to buildings 782 000 No record

Marshal Tito Barracks Damage to roads and parking
places

2 170 000 No record

Marshal Tito Barracks Damage to buildings 915 000 No record

Marshal Tito Barracks
roads

Damaged roads and parking
places

998 300 No record

Bistrik Barracks,
Sarajevo

Damage to buildings 698 000 No record

Ciglane Barracks Damage to buildings 182 200 No record

Sarajevo Airport Damage to roads, buildings,
terminals, drainage
installations and runway

18 260 000 No record

Roads of the Federation
Territory

Damage to 1.175 km of roads
caused by United Nations
vehicles

43 351 000 No record

Railway bridge, Visoko Damage to the bridge 8 000 No record

TOTAL 70 747 795

-----


