
99-13246 (E) 120599

United Nations A/53/944

General Assembly Distr.: General6 May 1999
Original: English

Fifty-third session
Agenda item 143 (a)
Administrative and budgetary aspects of the financing of the United
Nations peacekeeping operations: financing of the United Nations
peacekeeping operations

Report on the implementation of the reformed procedures for
determining reimbursement to Member States for contingent-
owned equipment

Report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and
Budgetary Questions

1. The Advisory Committee on Administrative and procedures, in particular to those elements of the
Budgetary Questions has considered the Secretary-General’s recommendations of the Working Groups that were not
report of 7 October 1998 on the first full year of specifically endorsed by the Secretary-General in his report
implementation of the reformed procedures for determining (A/50/807), and requested the Secretary-General, in this
reimbursement to Member States for contingent-owned regard, to include in the above-mentioned report comparative
equipment (A/53/465), as well as the report of the Phase IV data on the differences between the adopted system and other
Working Group on Reimbursement of Contingent-owned proposals contained in the reports of the Secretary-General
Equipment (A/C.5/52/39). During its consideration of the (A/50/807) and the Advisory Committee (A/50/887).
reports, the Committee met with representatives of the
Secretary-General, who provided additional information.
2. Both reports were submitted pursuant to General Phase IV Working Group prior to submitting his report on the
Assembly resolutions 50/222 of 11 April 1996 and 51/218 E first full year of implementation of the reformed procedures.
of 17 June 1997. In paragraphs 1 to 13 of his report, the In this connection, the Advisory Committee notes the
Secretary-General provided background on the developments recommendation of the Special Committee on Peacekeeping
leading to its preparation. Operations contained in its report of 21 May 1998 (A/53/127,
3. In this connection, the Advisory Committee recalls that,
in its resolution A/50/222, the General Assembly, while
deciding to review the operation of the reformed procedures
for determining reimbursement to Member States for
contingent-owned equipment, had also decided that the 5. At its request, the Advisory Committee was provided
review and the report it had requested the Secretary-General with the attached table outlining the recommendations of the
to submit should pertain to all elements of the reformed Working Group as well as those of the Secretary-General. The

4. In its resolution A/51/218 E, the General Assembly,
inter alia, requested the Secretary-General to convene the

para. 76) and recalls that the General Assembly, in paragraph
2 of its resolution 53/58 of 3 December 1998, endorsed the
proposals, rules and conclusions of the Special Committee
contained in paragraphs 44 to 115 of its report.

ODS JOB NON9913246EODS JOB NO ODS DOC SYMBOL1A/53/944ODS DOC SYMBOL1 ODS DOC SYMBOL2ODS DOC SYMBOL2 



A/53/944

2

Committee recommends that, in order to avoid confusion and or when collectively the value of those items rose above
prevent misapplication of decisions of the General Assembly, $250,000. Also in paragraph 13 of A/50/887, the Committee
the new contingent-owned equipment arrangements, as had outlined its views on how to proceed in this regard. The
approved by the General Assembly, should be annexed to the General Assembly, in its resolution 50/222, endorsed the
relevant resolution of the General Assembly. Committee’s views as expressed in its report (A/50/887); the
6. The Advisory Committee, in its observations, comments
and recommendations in the paragraphs below, has paid
particular attention to those elements on which the Secretary-
General and the Working Group differ.

Legally binding aspects of the Memorandum of
Understanding (Working Group report,
para. 65)

7. With regard to this question, as discussed in the
Secretary-General’s report (A/53/465, para.15), the Advisory
Committee agrees that the final form, including the title used
for the document that is negotiated between the United
Nations and a troop-contributing country, may vary from the
model Memorandum of Understanding to be approved by the
General Assembly; however, substantive provisions, as
contained in General Assembly resolutions 50/222, 51/218 E
and its subsequent relevant resolutions, should remain
consistent for all Member States.

Levels of reimbursement for loss or damage in
cases of hostile action or forced abandonment
(Working Group report, para. 66)

8. The question of levels of reimbursement has been
discussed in paragraphs 16, 17, 52 (a) and 53 (d) of the
Secretary-General’s report. The Advisory Committee’s views
on the subject have been expressed in paragraphs 12 and 13
of its report (A/50/887) and paragraphs 8 to 10 of its report
(A/52/410). The Committee also draws attention to chapter
2, paragraphs 16 to 22, of the Manual on Policies and
Procedures concerning Reimbursement and Control of
Contingent-owned Equipment of Troop-Contributing
Countries Participating in Peacekeeping Missions (the COE
Manual).
9. Following current practice in cases of loss or damage
resulting from a single hostile action or forced abandonment,
the United Nations will assume liability for each and every
item of major equipment when the collective generic fair
market value equals or exceeds the threshold value of
$250,000. The Advisory Committee recalls, as indicated in
paragraphs 12 and 13 of its report (A/50/887), that, while the
Secretary-General had agreed with the Phase II and III
Working Groups to reimbursement for major equipment at
or above the generic fair market value of $250,000, he had
not agreed to reimbursement of items valued below $250,000

Committee had recommended that consideration should be
given to the recognition of potential risk of aggregate loss for
equipment whose individual value was less than $250,000 by
including in the lease rates an additional factor to compensate
Member States for potential loss or damage as a result of
hostile action or forced abandonment. Accordingly, loss or
damage of minor equipment including spare parts due to
hostile action or forced abandonment is not separately
reimbursed but is included in mission factors. In this
connection, the Committee was informed that a mission factor
for hostile action/forced abandonment was subsequently
established not to exceed 5 per cent of the reimbursement
rates of self-sustainment and the spare element (or) of the
maintenance rate of the wet lease rate. The application of this
factor is determined by the technical survey team at the
initiation of a mission.
10. In paragraph 10 of its report (A/52/410), the Advisory
Committee stated that it had been informed that annex B,
section 6, Loss or damage, paragraph 18, of the contribution
agreement would read as follows: “In cases of loss or damage
resulting from a single hostile action or forced abandonment,
the United Nations will assume liability for each and every
item of major equipment when the collective generic fair
market value equals or exceeds the threshold value of
$250,000”. The Advisory Committee was informed that
although the model contribution agreement has yet to be
approved by the General Assembly, it is being used by the
Secretariat.
11. The Secretary-General, in both his current report
(A/53/465) and in his presentation to the Phase IV Working
Group, proposes a general financial limit on the liability of
the United Nations for loss or damage due to hostile action
or forced abandonment, (para. 52 (a)) and a method of
calculating the amounts to be reimbursed (para. 53 (d)). The
Working Group has not recommended a financial limit as
indicated in paragraph 66 (b) of its report (A/C.5/52/39). The
Working Group recommended that in view of the possibility
of large claims, the Secretariat should recommend appropriate
measures for handling such claims.
12. The Advisory Committee believes that the procedure
to be approved by the General Assembly should be fair to the
troop-contributing countries, but should also provide a
practical mechanism by which the United Nations can handle
potentially high claims. The Committee points out that, under
the new contingent-owned equipment arrangements, all



A/53/944

3

equipment brought to a mission by a troop-contributing in this regard be submitted to the fifty-fourth session of the
country has to have the prior approval of the United Nations. General Assembly.
The Committee stresses the need to have the Memorandum
of Understanding finalized and signed before the deployment
of the contingents and the contingent-owned equipment. The
new arrangements call for separate negotiation with troop-
contributing countries concerning special equipment.
Furthermore, the Committee notes that aircraft and shipping
vessels are not included in the contribution agreement and are
the subject of separate negotiation between the United
Nations and the troop-contributing country concerned.
13. The Advisory Committee notes, however, that, so far,
experience by the United Nations in this regard has been
limited. Amounts for recent claims range between $500,000
and $15 million, as indicated in annex II to the Secretary-
General’s report. The Committee notes that six claims
totalling $50 million have been submitted in respect of the
United Nations Protection Force and the United Nations
Transitional Administration for Eastern Slavonia, Baranja and
Western Sirmium (A/53/465, para. 47 (c) (ii)).
14. Taking into account the limited experience in
processing large claims by the United Nations, and the fact
that no budgetary provision is made for contingent liabilities
owing to their unpredictability, the Committee is of the
opinion that, at this stage, a case has not been made to set a
financial limit for loss or damage in cases of hostile action or
forced abandonment. The Committee notes that the
Secretariat has not formally indicated how such limitations
might be set. In this connection, the Committee recommends
that the Secretariat should submit proposals to the General
Assembly on the handling of large claims. Such proposals
should include self or commercial insurance.
15. With respect to the method of calculating amounts to
be reimbursed, the Committee agrees with the proposal of the
Secretary-General that reimbursement for an item of
equipment would be the lesser of the generic fair market value
or the residual value of the equipment lost (A/53/465, para.
53 (d)).

United Nations responsibility for loss or damage
during transportation (Working Group report,
para. 68)

16. This issue has been discussed in paragraphs 19, 20 and
52 (b) of the Secretary-General’s report. The Advisory
Committee agrees with the course of action proposed by the
Secretary-General for implementing the recommendations of
the Working Group, and suggests that commercial
alternatives be included in the review. The Committee
recommends that the results of the review to be carried out

Universality of missions factors (Working Group
report, para. 69)

17. The Advisory Committee notes from paragraph 21 of
the Secretary-General’s report that mission factors are
established by the Secretariat prior to the start of a mission
in order to secure provisions in the budget and establish
credible budget estimates. The Committee is of the view that
the quality and timeliness of the mission factors and their
reliability depend on the expertise employed by the technical
survey as well as the time-lapse between the period of the
survey and the start of the mission operation. The Committee
was informed that changes could be made to the factors at any
time at the request of a troop-contributing country even before
the three-month period recommended by the Working Group.
The Committee was further informed that during 1998 the
Secretariat had conducted such a review at the request of a
troop-contributing country, before the third month of the
mission. The Committee agrees with the position of the
Secretariat that, should conditions in the mission area change,
the current procedure allows for a review of mission factors
even before three months have elapsed.

Establishing dates for applying procedures in
current missions (Working Group report,
para. 72)

18. The Advisory Committee notes the Working Group’s
recommendation and the Secretariat’s concurrence that a plan
be submitted with a cut-off date by which all missions should
be operating under the new system. The Committee requests
that the Secretary-General expedite preparation of such a
plan.

Retroactive implementation (Working Group
report, para. 73)

19. With regard to retroactive implementation of the
contingent-owned equipment arrangements, as indicated in
paragraphs 26 to 28 of the Secretary-General’s report, the
Advisory Committee agrees with the view of the Working
Group that the new procedures are superior to the old in that
when fully implemented they will considerably facilitate the
handling of claims and payments. However, as pointed out by
the Committee in its report on United Nations peacekeeping
operations (A/53/940) and highlighted in the report of the
Board of Auditors to the General Assembly on the accounts
of the United Nations peacekeeping operations for the
financial period ending 30 June 1998 (A/53/5, vol. II), there



A/53/944

4

are certain problems concerning the retroactive application review of performance standards and rates of reimbursement
of the new arrangements, although these problems are mainly could be available for inclusion in the budget estimates for
transitional. The Committee does not believe that any useful the year commencing 1 July 2002. However, during
purpose would be served by conducting a costly comparative discussions with the Committee, the Secretariat advanced the
study of the financial implications of the new and the old possibility of conducting the review in the spring of 2000.
system for reimbursement of contingent-owned equipment. The Committee concurs with this approach and trusts that the
As indicated in the Secretary-General’s report the study can results will be reflected in the budgets of peacekeeping
only be completed when all relevant claims have been operations for the period from 2001 to 2002.
processed for liquidated or liquidating missions (A/53/465,
para. 27). In the opinion of the Committee, this exercise
would be largely historical and would not affect what Member
States would have negotiated with the United Nations, either
based on the old or the retroactive application of the new
procedures. The Committee therefore sees little merit in
undertaking the study. However, in reports on the liquidation
of peacekeeping operations, sufficient data should be made
available so as to allow a determination of the impact of the
retroactive application of the new contingent-owned
equipment arrangements.

Review of major equipment standards (Working
Group report, para. 76)

20. The discussion on rates of reimbursement, performance
standards and review dates has been reflected in paragraphs
31, 46 and 53 (e) of the Secretary-General’s report. The
review cycle was indicated in the annex to General Assembly
resolution 49/233 A of 23 December 1994.
21. The Advisory Committee notes that, for reasons given
in paragraph 92 of the Working Group’s report, a change of
the review date has been recommended. As indicated in
paragraph 45 of his report, the Secretary-General had
proposed that the Phase IV Working Group conduct a rate
review. The Committee was informed that rate review could
not be conducted as originally scheduled.
22. In view of the delay in the consideration of the report
of the Working Group and the late submission of the
Secretary-General’s report, the Advisory Committee was
informed by the representatives of the Secretary-General that
the date specified in the report of the Working Group, that is
2001, would be acceptable. On enquiry, the Committee was
informed by the representatives of the Secretary-General that,
with the review date as proposed, the results of the

Office supplies (Working Group report,
para. 81)

23. While the Advisory Committee endorses the views of
the Working Group on revised performance standards, the
Committee agrees with the Secretary-General’s view, as
indicated in paragraph 37 of his report, that, during the next
rate review, discussion take place on the issue of
reimbursement of office supplies for the entire contingent or
for only those troops in administrative posts, as well as the
basis for the rate.

Laundry and cleaning (Working Group report,
para. 83)

24. The Advisory Committee was informed that, as
currently implemented, the rate for laundry and cleaning does
not include dry cleaning of operationally required special
clothing, hair cutting, tailoring and cobbling; the Working
Group agreed to the inclusion of dry cleaning of special
clothing in the current rate but not to the inclusion of hair
cutting, tailoring and cobbling as recommended by the
Secretariat. The Committee notes the view of the Secretariat
as indicated in paragraph 39 of the Secretary-General’s
report.

Tentage and accommodation (Working Group
report, para. 84)

25. This issue has been referred to in paragraphs 40 and 53
(a) of the Secretary-General’s report. Paragraph 84 of the
Working Group’s report refers to chapter 3, annex B,
paragraph 20, of the COE Manual, which provides that “when
the United Nations is unable to provide permanent, semi-
rigid, or rigid accommodation for a Contingent after six
months in tents, the Contingent will be entitled to receive
reimbursement at both the tentage and accommodation self-
sustainment rates. This combined rate will continue until
personnel are housed to the standard specified under the
accommodation rate”. The tentage rate is $20 and the
accommodation rate is $36. The amount of $36 has also been
indicated in the report of the Phase III Working Group



A/53/944

5

(A/C.5/49/70, appendix II, B), and in the revised model importantly, the Secretariat cannot make timely payments if
Contribution Agreement (A/51/967 and Corr.1 and 2, the Member States have not provided the funds. The
annex C). Committee therefore agrees with the position of the Secretary-
26. During discussions with the representatives of the
Secretary-General, the Committee was informed that the
intention of the dual payment was to provide additional
funding for the contingent to allow them to build or rent
accommodations locally. This rationale is not expressed in
any of the published documents and there is no mention of a
discomfort factor in any of the background papers. At the
present time, the dual payment has not been made to any
troop-contributing country. The Committee was informed,
however, that there is one case where a troop-contributing
country is contesting the issue. The Committee was informed
that, with respect to prospective implementation, the
notification mentioned in chapter 3, annex B, paragraph 19
of the COE Manual could be dealt with at the time of the
negotiation of the Memorandum of Understanding. If the
United Nations is not in a position to provide hard wall
accommodations at the six-month period, the troop-
contributing country should be informed by the Secretariat
at the time of the negotiation of the Memorandum of
Understanding and the accommodation rate of $36 could be
proposed for inclusion in the Memorandum of Understanding.
27. The Advisory Committee notes that in paragraph 85 of
its report the Working Group recommended that a mechanism
be developed and be made available whereby the Secretariat
may request a temporary waiver of the application of this dual
payment principle for those short-duration missions where
the provision of hard accommodation is demonstrably and
clearly impractical and not cost-effective. This gives the
impression that the Working Group does recognize that there
may be justifiable reasons for the inability of the United
Nations to provide the accommodation. The Advisory
Committee believes that if the troops are incurring higher
accommodation costs after six months in tents or elsewhere,
then they should be reimbursed for their actual expenses up
to $56, but in no case lower than $36. Should the General
Assembly agree with this recommendation, the model
Contribution Agreement would need to be amended.

Liability of the United Nations under the
lease system

28. This issue has been outlined in paragraphs 47 (b) and
53 (c) of the Secretary-General’s report. The issue was also
dealt with in paragraph 11 of the Advisory Committee’s
report (A/50/887). The Secretariat is of the opinion that the
insurance factor included in the rates covers these losses and
if the cost for these no-fault incidents reverted to the United
Nations, it would constitute a double payment. More

General, as expressed in paragraph 53 (c) of his report.

Revised COE Manual
29. The Advisory Committee notes that the Phase V
Working Group is going to conduct a review of the
reimbursement rates in 2001. In paragraph 93 of the Working
Group report and paragraph 45 (a) of the Secretary-General’s
report, it is envisaged that a revised COE Manual should be
completed not later than mid-1999. On enquiry, the
Committee was informed by the representatives of the
Secretary-General that, given the fact that recommendations
of the Phase IV Working Group will not be approved by the
General Assembly until mid-1999, a practical date for the
completion of a revised contingent-owned equipment Manual
would be mid-2000. The current version of the Manual would
have to be updated prior to meetings of the Phase V Working
Group. In the opinion of the Committee, it would seem more
practical to wait for the completion of the work of the Phase
V Working Group before issuing an updated Manual.
30. Taking into account paragraph 1 of resolution 51/218 E,
the Advisory Committee recommends that, after the General
Assembly has considered the reports of the Working Group
(A/C.5/52/39), the Secretary-General (A/53/465) and the
Committee (A/53/944), and taken action, a revised model
contribution agreement/memorandum of understanding should
be prepared.

Expertise in the review and assessment of the
generic fair market value of equipment

31. The Advisory Committee, in its report on United
Nations peacekeeping operations (A/53/940), has
recommended that the United Nations supplement, as
appropriate, its own in-house expertise with the assistance
of independent outside expertise in the review and assessment
of the generic fair market value of equipment. The Committee
recommends that the review be undertaken in 2000 for the
results to be reflected in the peacekeeping budgets for the
period from 1 July 2001 to 30 June 2002.



A/53/944

6

Other matters
32. The Advisory Committee draws attention to paragraph
47 of its report A/53/895, in which the Committee had
stressed the importance of including in the relevant
memoranda of understanding, clear information on the
obligations of the Secretariat and Member States, including
the five-year period for submission of claims.
33. The Committee also requests that future peacekeeping
budgets should include complete information on
reimbursement arrangements for troop-contributing countries
and that performance reports should provide data on actual
amounts paid or to be paid as compared with initial estimates.



A/53/944

7

Annex
Report of the first full year of implementation of the reformed
procedures for determining reimbursement to Member States
for contingent-owned equipment

Issue (A/C.5/52/39)
Phase IV Working Group’s recommendations Secretariat recommendations (A/53/465)

1. Legally binding aspects of the The final form of the Memorandum Recommends approval.
Memorandum of Understanding. of Understanding could vary as long

as the legally binding aspects of the
agreement remain, e.g., letter of
understanding or contribution
agreement rather than Memorandum
of Understanding.

2. Dispute resolution. Formalizes procedures by which the Recommends approval.
Secretariat’s representatives would
be contacted in the event of
disagreements between troop-
contributing countries and the
United Nations regarding
contingent-owned equipment
matters.

3. Period of reimbursement. Reduce the rate for major equipment Recommends approval.
and self-sustainment during the
drawdown period. The revised rate
would be 50 per cent of the monthly
lease and self-sustainment rates
being reimbursed prior to the
drawdown.

4. Contingent-owned equipment The review and a revision of the Recommended approval, however,
manual. contingent-owned equipment the delay in the review process and

manual to be completed no later approval of the report of the
than mid-1999. Secretary-General (A/53/465) and

Phase IV Working Group
recommendations makes a date of
mid-2000 more realistic.

5. United Nations standards of The recommendation of the Recommends approval.
logistic support. Working Group to establish

standards for logistics support was
an issue that had been previously
reviewed by the Secretariat, and a
programme was already under way
within the Field Administration and
Logistics Division to establish
standards of support for goods and
services provided by the United
Nations.

6. Reimbursement rate for late Troop-contributing countries will Recommends approval.
return of equipment from the be reimbursed at the dry-lease rate
mission area. for excessive delays (more than 14

days) in the repatriation of its
contingent-owned equipment caused
by the United Nations.

7. Major equipment usage. A contingent using major Recommends approval.
equipment, such as a mobile kitchen
trailer, will receive only self-
sustainment reimbursement for
catering. Reimbursement for the
equipment would constitute a
double payment.



A/53/944

Issue (A/C.5/52/39)
Phase IV Working Group’s recommendations Secretariat recommendations (A/53/465)

8

8. Relationship between a A standardized mission-specific Recommends approval.
soldier’s kit and self- personal equipment listing be
sustainment. approved prior to deployment to a

mission.
9. Communications. Recommending revised performance Recommends approval.

standards for self-sustainment
reimbursement for communications.

10. Catering and electrical self- Clarified the reimbursement Recommends approval.
sustainment categories. procedures for contingents required

to provide support to an observation
post or sub-unit away from the base
camp.

11. Establishing dates for applying A plan be submitted with a cut-off Recommends approval in principle.
procedures in current missions. date by which all missions should be The Secretariat continues working

operational under the new system. to prepare a plan for transition to
The plan was to be submitted for the new system. The submission of
consideration and approval of the the plan is dependent upon an
General Assembly by the end of overall assessment of the military
1998. requirements, which is currently

being conducted in coordination
with the military advisers and force
commanders. The implementation of
the revised procedures in missions
will have to be accomplished in
phases to take into account the
useful life of some existing
equipment for which countries have
been fully reimbursed under the old
procedures.

12. Retroactive implementation. The Secretariat addressed the issue An accurate evaluation of the cost
of the cost of the retroactive of the retroactive implementation of
implementation. The Working the new procedures can only be
Group recommended no change to completed when all relevant claims
be made in the current practice of have been processed for liquidated
applying the new procedures missions.
retroactively. They further
recommended the Secretariat
prepare a detailed report on the
financial implications of retroactive
application and present it to the
General Assembly.

13. Office Supplies, explosive These issues were discussed with a Recommends approval.
ordnance disposal, recommendation that they be further
identification, medical support, reviewed at the Phase V Working
laundry and cleaning, field Group review of rates and
defence stores, and nuclear, performance standards.
bacteriological and chemical
agents.

Issues requiring additional discussion and decision

Issue (A/C.5/52/39)
Phase IV Working Group’s recommendations Secretariat recommendations (A/53/465)

14. Financial limitation for claims No upper limits should be placed on The General Assembly may wish to
resulting from losses of justified claims. The Secretariat consider a financial limitation on
contingent-owned equipment should recommend appropriate contingent-owned equipment claims
due to hostile action or forced measures for handling such claims. resulting from losses due to hostile
abandonment. action or forced abandonment.



A/53/944

Issue (A/C.5/52/39)
Phase IV Working Group’s recommendations Secretariat recommendations (A/53/465)

9

15. United Nations responsibility The loss or damage issue be A study on the practicality and
regarding loss of or damage to clarified and implemented by the administrative costs of this
equipment during Secretariat to ensure troop- recommendation prior to
transportation exceeds 10 per contributing country is reimbursed implementation. In most cases,
cent of the generic fair market when significant damage (10 per damage should be covered by
of the item of equipment. cent or more of the generic fair shippers’ insurance

market value of individual items of
equipment ) occurs during
transportation.

16. Universality of mission factors A review of mission factors should Review in the third month is not
— requirement for review of be conducted in the third month necessary. Chief administrative
mission factors in the third following the establishment of the officer currently has ability to
month of the mission. mission. request a review when significant

changes occur.
17. Dual payments for Current provision for $56 dual Recommends that only the

accommodation and tentage. payment ($20 tentage and $36 accommodation rate of $36 per
accommodation) be continued if man/month be paid if suitable
troops are not provided hard wall accommodations are not provided
accommodations after six months in after the six month period.
mission. Secretariat can request
waiver for short duration missions
where conditions are clearly
impracticable and not cost effective.

18. Additional United Nations This issue was not addressed by the The Secretariat suggests that the
financial responsibilities to Phase IV Working Group as General Assembly review its
cover “no-fault” losses in the indicated in para. 31 of A/50/807. decision as it constitutes a double
event the United Nations is not The previous Working Groups payment in that an insurance factor
meeting its full liability under proposed that, in the event of the was included in the rates to cover
the leasing system. United Nations not meeting its full “no-fault” incidents.

liability under the leasing system,
total responsibility for loss or
damage for “no-fault” incidents
would revert to the Organization.

19. Basis of reimbursement for The Working Group recommended The Secretariat believes that the
equipment lost or damaged as a the continuation of the current basis for the reimbursement should
result of hostile action or policy which tacitly approves the be the lesser of the generic fair
forced abandonment. generic fair market value (less market value (less applicable dry

applicable dry lease payments) as lease payments) or residual value.
the basis for the reimbursement
calculation.

20. Review of major equipment The Working Group recommended The Secretariat initially
standards — proposed date for the Secretariat convene the Phase V recommended the Phase V Working
Phase V Working Group Working Group in 2001 to review Group be convened in 1999.
review. and validate reimbursement rates, However, owing to the delays in the

procedures and standards. review of the report of the
Secretary-General (A/53/465) and
approval of the Phase IV Working
Group recommendations, the
Secretariat now concurs with the
recommendations for a Phase V
conference and rate review in 2001.
The reduced staff assigned to work
on contingent-owned equipment is
currently concentrating on backlog
claims and will require additional
time to prepare for the conference.


