
98-34202 (E) 101198

United Nations A/53/645

General Assembly Distr.: General6 November 1998
Original: English

Fifty-third session
Agenda item 112
United Nations reform: measures and proposals

Revolving Credit Fund

Report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and
Budgetary Questions

1. The Advisory Committee on Administrative and implementation. As indicated in paragraph 4 of the report, the
Budgetary Questions has considered the report of the establishment of the Revolving Credit Fund would constitute
Secretary-General on the Revolving Credit Fund (A/52/822). a major addition to the financial arrangements set out in the
During its consideration of the report, the Advisory Financial Regulations and Rules of the United Nations.
Committee met with the Under-Secretary-General for
Management, who introduced the report and provided
additional information and clarification on it.
2. As indicated in paragraph 1 of the report, the United specify why the Fund should initially be capitalized at a level
Nations has experienced recurrent financial crises due to a of up to $1 billion, given the fact that, according to paragraph
large and growing volume of arrears of payments, 2 of the report of the Secretary-General on improving the
notwithstanding the legal obligation of Member States to pay financial situation of the United Nations (A/53/514), total
their assessed contributions in full, on time and without unpaid assessments at 30 September 1998 amounted to over
conditions. The Secretary-General points out that only a real $2.5 billion, nor does it indicate the time when the Fund could
commitment by Member States to meet their obligations fully be realistically expected to provide a sufficient source of cash
will overcome the financial problems of the Organization. reserve. Moreover, it is not clear what options the Secretary-
3. As an immediate practical measure to complement the
ongoing search for a more fundamental solution to the
financial problems of the United Nations, the Secretary-
General proposes, in paragraph 2 of his report, that Member
States establish a Revolving Credit Fund, initially capitalized
at a level of up to $1 billion through voluntary contributions
or any other means of financing that Member States may wish
to suggest.
4. The report of the Secretary-General contains details on
the Secretary-General’s proposal of the Revolving Credit
Fund and spells out some of the practical aspects of its

5. The Advisory Committee points out that a number of
issues pertaining to the functioning of the Revolving Credit
Fund still remain unclear. For example, the report does not

General will have if Member States fail to respond to his
notification or do not indicate the future date of payment of
unpaid assessments. The Committee points out that, according
to the Secretary-General, such notification will allow him to
pledge it as security for borrowing at such time as he
considers necessary from the Revolving Credit Fund
(A/52/822, para. 2). Furthermore, the Committee questions
the linkage between the treatment of retained surpluses and
the Revolving Credit Fund.
6. The Advisory Committee is also concerned that, on the
one hand, the proposed establishment of the Revolving Credit
Fund may put additional burden on those Member States that

ODS JOB NON9834202EODS JOB NO ODS DOC SYMBOL1A/53/645ODS DOC SYMBOL1 ODS DOC SYMBOL2ODS DOC SYMBOL2 



A/53/645

2

already fully meet their financial obligations and, on the other
hand, it may not induce delinquent Member States to pay their
contributions in full and on time, nor will it induce them to
provide voluntary contributions to the Fund.
7. The Advisory Committee points out that the financial
crisis of the United Nations results from the lack of political
will of some Member States to pay their assessed
contributions in full, on time and without conditions. This is
a political rather than a financial problem and, as such, it
cannot be successfully resolved by technical means.
Moreover, the creation of the Revolving Credit Fund may
dilute the attention of Member States towards finding an
effective political solution to the financial crisis of the
Organization.
8. In view of the comments and observations above, the
Advisory Committee will refrain from commenting on the
operations and procedures of the Revolving Credit Fund until
such time as the General Assembly pronounces itself on the
principles involved.


