
99-15503 (E) 260599
*9913214*

* Reissued for technical reasons.

United Nations A/53/940*

General Assembly Distr.: General26 May 1999
Original: English

Fifty-third session
Agenda item 111
Financial reports and audited financial statements,
and reports of the Board of Auditors

United Nations peacekeeping operations

Report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and
Budgetary Questions

1. In accordance with financial regulation 12.11, the recommendations contained in paragraph 10 (i) and (j) should
Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary take account of the new situation consequent upon the
Questions has considered the report of the Board of Auditors termination of the mandate of the United Nations Observer
on the financial report and audited financial statements for the Mission in Angola (MONUA).
United Nations peacekeeping operations for the 12-month
period ended 30 June 1998 .1

2. In its previous reports (A/51/533, para. 17, and Nations Peacekeeping Reserve Fund (paras. 20–24), the
A/53/513, para. 13), the Committee had commented on the Committee recalls the purpose of the Fund as stipulated in
timing of the submission of the Board’s report to the General Assembly resolution 47/217, i.e., as a cash flow
Committee. The Committee welcomes the progress made in mechanism to ensure the rapid response to the needs of
this regard; exchanged views with the Audit Operations peacekeeping operations. The General Assembly, in its
Committee of the Board as well as with the representatives resolution 49/233, decided to limit the utilization of the Fund
of the Secretary-General. In the Committee’s opinion it would to the start-up phase of new peacekeeping operations, to the
be useful for it to have the report available to it by the expansion of existing ones or to unforeseen and extraordinary
beginning of February so that the Board’s findings and expenditures related to peacekeeping. Information on the use
recommendations could be taken into account when the of the Fund is contained in the report of the Secretary-General
Committee considers the budgets for peacekeeping (A/53/912). In view of the substantial decrease in the level
operations. Although the Committee was informed by the of peacekeeping operations, the Committee believes that the
representatives of the Secretary-General about the present current level of the Fund, at $150 million, should be
constraints, it requests that efforts be redoubled in this regard reconsidered by the General Assembly, taking into account
to accelerate the process. all relevant factors.
3. The Committee commends the Board for the format and 5. With regard to unliquidated obligations (paras. 25–28),
presentation of its report. While the main recommendations the Committee recalls its concerns in this regard as expressed
have been highlighted, implementation of the in its report on the financing of the United Nations

4. Financial issues have been covered in paragraphs 12
to 40 of the Board’s report. With regard to the United2

peacekeeping operations (A/52/860, paras. 28–29). Given
the continued high level of unliquidated obligations, the

ODS JOB NON9915503EODS JOB NO ODS DOC SYMBOL1A/53/940*ODS DOC SYMBOL1 ODS DOC SYMBOL2ODS DOC SYMBOL2 



A/53/940

2

Committee is of the view that the frequency of the reviews subject. The Committee commends the Board for its audit,
should be increased and their quality improved as a matter of and welcomes the observations and recommendations that the
priority. The Committee notes that part of the amounts Board has made. The audit has confirmed many of the
obligated are related to inter-office vouchers, as indicated in observations made in previous reports of the Committee, in
paragraph 27 of the report of the Board of Auditors. The particular those made in its report (ibid., paras. 40–48) that
Committee recommends that in its next audit, the Board the capacity of the Secretariat to manage the new contingent-
examine the reasons that led to the backlog in the processing owned equipment arrangements is lacking.
of inter-office vouchers. The Committee further recommends
that the Secretariat and funds and programmes should, in the
context of the Administrative Committee on Coordination
machinery, discuss and devise more efficient methods of
clearing inter-office vouchers, including the use of new
technology; however, measures adopted should not adversely
affect the capacity of the activities concerned to retain audit
trails.
6. The non-recognition in the accounts of claims of troop-
contributing countries, as reported by the Board of Auditors
in paragraphs 13 and 14 of its report, is a serious deficiency2
on the part of the Administration and needs urgent attention.
The Committee notes that such deficiencies may lead to late
settlement of claims due to lack of reservation of funds in the
related accounts, as pointed out in paragraph 14 (b) of the
Board’s report.
7. In paragraphs 35 to 38 and 121 to 129 of its report, the United Nations Operation in Mozambique, an amount of
Board commented extensively on property losses, reporting approximately $7.8 million as reimbursement for contingent-
of losses, the write-off process and the workings of the owned equipment has been determined on the basis of new
Property Survey Boards. The Advisory Committee is contingent-owned equipment procedures. The Committee
concerned about what appears to be a very cumbersome and notes that in the case of UNOSOM, of an estimate of $31.9
involved process of reporting losses. In the opinion of the million, an amount of $5.6 million has been agreed to be paid
Committee, there is a need to improve considerably the to the troop-contributing country. The Committee requested
coordination between the various units involved in handling information as to how the new arrangements were applied in
property losses. The functioning of the Property Boards these cases and whether the wet or dry lease arrangements
appears inefficient, involved and very lengthy. It is the view were being applied. The Committee also requested
of the Committee that many of the results of the audit of write- information on how the Secretariat calculated the sustainment
off of property losses confirm the Committee’s previous costs and other expenses incurred by the United Nations. The
comments on the poor quality of inventory management in the information received by the Committee from the
United Nations. This has often led to misleading or inflated Administration in response to these requests is contained in
requests for acquisition of new equipment and other assets. the annex below; as can be seen from that annex, it is
The Committee recommends that urgent steps be taken by the unsatisfactory. The Committee reiterates its view, expressed
Secretariat to correct the weaknesses identified by the in paragraph 8 of its report on the financing of UNOSOM
Board’s audit. Corrective measures should include staff (A/52/853), that the potential exists for double payment with
training, and — where necessary — temporary deployment respect to services provided by the United Nations to
of qualified staff to clear any existing backlog. Any failure to contingents which may overlap with services of self-
prepare and submit adequate documentation is serious and sustenance.
needs to be dealt with by management accordingly.
8. Management issues are dealt with in paragraphs 41 to of the Committee on contingent-owned equipment should be
142 of the Board’s report. This section (paras. 47–82) of the read in conjunction with the corresponding peacekeeping
Board’s report deals in large part with the subject of reports and the Committee’s observations and
contingent-owned equipment. The Committee, in its report recommendations on the report of the Phase IV Working
(A/52/860, para. 47), had requested a special audit of this Group on reimbursement of contingent-owned equipment

9. The retroactive implementation of the new
arrangements, in particular in relation to missions that had
closed prior to 1 July 1996, has the potential for the United
Nations to be overcharged for the same items of equipment
and self-sustainment. The Board’s audit has also revealed that
any expectation that the new contingent-owned equipment
arrangements would be less costly to the United Nations and
to Member States has yet to be realized.
10. The Committee is particularly concerned by the
implication of applying the new contingent-owned equipment
procedures retroactively to missions that had their mandates
terminated before July 1996. The Committee commented on
this question in its report (ibid., para. 44). From the
information provided to it, the Committee notes that, for
example, for the Nations Operation in Somalia (UNOSOM),
the United Nations Assistance Mission for Rwanda and the

11. The recommendations of the Board and the observations



A/53/940

3

(A/C.5/52/39) and the report of the Secretary-General up on its current finding and examine the reasons for the
(A/53/465) contained in its report on the implementation of increase.
the reformed procedures for determining reimbursement to
Member States for contingent-owned equipment (A/53/944
and Corr.1). With respect to the Board’s recommendation
contained in paragraph 57 of its report, the Committee
recommends that the United Nations supplement, as
appropriate, its own in-house expertise with the assistance
of independent outside expertise in the review and assessment
of the generic fair market value of equipment. The Committee
recommends that the review be undertaken in 2000 for the
results to be included in the peacekeeping budgets for the
period 1 July 2001 to 30 June 2002 (see A/53/944 and
Corr.1).
12. With respect to the recommendation contained in
paragraph 79 of the Board’s report, that the Administration
review the question of the retroactive application of the new
arrangements for reimbursement of contingent-owned
equipment, the Committee notes that a similar
recommendation was made by the Phase IV Working Group
(see A/53/465, paras. 26–28, and A/C.5/52/39, para. 73). The
Committee points out that issues related to the retroactive
application of the new contingent-owned equipment
arrangements are temporary as they relate to the transition
from the old to the new system of reimbursement. In this
connection, the Committee notes from paragraph 28 of the
report of the Secretary-General that a definitive comparison
of the systems is not available at present to achieve an
accurate comparison between the two systems. Furthermore,
it is doubtful whether the results of the review would affect
retroactive payments already agreed to between troop-
contributing countries and the United Nations. For the reasons
given in its report on contingent-owned equipment (A/53/944
and Corr.1), the Committee does not see any merit in
conducting a review as recommended in paragraph 79 of the
Board’s report.
13. The Committee notes from paragraphs 41–43 of the
Board’s report that while the level of peacekeeping operations
has declined, the cost of the top 25 commodities and services
purchased for peacekeeping operations has gone up. The
Committee notes further that the response of the
Administration in paragraph 44 of the Board’s report does not
address this specific finding by the Board. On enquiry, the
representatives of the Secretary-General indicated that as a
whole, procurement activities had gone down. Nevertheless,
the Committee agrees that the Administration should carefully
monitor the increasing level of procurement for peacekeeping
operations in the areas identified by the Board. The
Committee recommends that in its next audit the Board follow

14. The Committee expresses its concern about the serious
weaknesses identified by the Board with regard to contract
management in MONUA (paras. 97–109). The Committee
recommends that the circumstances that led to these lapses
be examined by the Secretariat and the lessons learned be
applied to other peacekeeping missions, together with the
recommendations of the Board.
15. The Committee notes with appreciation the
considerable decrease in the number of cases submitted to the
Headquarters Committee on Contracts on an ex post facto
basis, as indicated in paragraph 45 of the Board’s report. On
enquiry, the Audit Operations Committee of the Board
informed the Committee that the Board intends to examine
the question of the application of the definition of exigency
as contained in the report of the Secretary-General on
procurement reform (A/C.5/52/46) at the time the Board
carries out a horizontal audit of the United Nations
procurement activities, as requested by the Committee (see
A/53/513, para. 24).
16. The comments by the Board contained in paragraphs
83 and 84 of its report reveal weaknesses in the Procurement
Division’s filing system at Headquarters. Unless immediate
measures are taken, these management weaknesses could
seriously affect the procurement process. The Committee
recommends that use be made of new technology in the reform
of the filing system. Such technology should be compatible
with the requirement of providing a clear audit trail for all
procurement activities.
17. In paragraphs 91 to 93 of its report, the Board
commented on the improper hiring of temporary staff in the
United Nations Disengagement Observer Force (UNDOF)
through the use of purchase orders. The Committee
recommends immediate review of this practice, and the action
taken to rectify the situation should be reported in the next
budget for UNDOF. The Committee further recommends that
a review be made to ascertain whether similar situations exist
in other peacekeeping missions, with a view to making
corresponding corrections.

Notes

Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-third1
Session, Supplement No. 5 (A/53/5), vol. II.
Ibid., chap. II.2



A/53/940

4

Annex
Information supplied by the Secretariat on contingent-owned
equipment reimbursement

Question
On enquiry the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions was

informed, for example, that for the United Nations Operation in Somalia (UNOSOM), the
United Nations Assistance Mission for Rwanda (UNAMIR) and the United Nations Operation
in Mozambique (ONUMOZ), approximately $7.8 million in contingent-owned equipment
reimbursement had been determined on the basis of the new contingent-owned equipment
procedures. The Committee notes that in one case (UNOSOM) involving an estimate of $31.9
million, $5.6 million has been agreed to. Please provide an explanation as well as information
as to how the new arrangements were applied.

Answer

1. The amount of $31.9 million indicated in the question represents an amount for
contingent-owned equipment reimbursement owed to one troop-contributing country for
UNOSOM (see also para. 3 below).
2. UNAMIR. Of 17 troop contributors, two have opted for the new contingent-owned
equipment arrangements. One troop-contributing country has been reimbursed in full in the
amount of $596,681 based on the dry lease rate for the equipment provided to the Mission
(no self-sustainment costs were claimed). Another troop-contributing country has submitted
a claim requesting wet lease reimbursement for major equipment and self-sustainment. The
claim is estimated at $2,311,723, and is presently under review in order to verify the degree
of self-sustainment and the performance standard that the troop-contributing country should
meet to be entitled to wet lease rates.
3. UNOSOM. Of the 28 troop contributors, one troop-contributing country has requested
reimbursement under the new procedures for wet lease and self-sustainment. The claim is
estimated at $31,941,951.
4. ONUMOZ. Of the 10 troop contributors, one troop-contributing country has requested
reimbursement under the new procedures for wet lease and self-sustainment. The claim is
estimated at $11,887,573.
5. The self-sustainment costs for UNOSOM and ONUMOZ were calculated on the basis
of the rates endorsed by the General Assembly in its resolution 50/222 of 11 April 1996.
United Nations personnel who participated in the missions were contacted for confirmation
that the troop-contributing country had provided the appropriate support levels to justify the
reimbursement.


