
99-13208 (E) 100599

United Nations A/53/942

General Assembly Distr.: General6 May 1999
Original: English

Fifty-third session
Agenda item 112
Review of the efficiency of the administrative and financial functioning of
the United Nations

Outsourcing practices

Report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and
Budgetary Questions

1. The Advisory Committee on Administrative and mentioned in paragraph 26C.3 of the proposed programme
Budgetary Questions has considered the report of the budget (A/50/6) as one of the components of the new strategy
Secretary-General on outsourcing practices (A/53/818). for the management of the human resources of the
During its consideration of the report, the Committee met Organization, the budget submission did not indicate the
with representatives of the Secretary-General who provided scope or criteria for contracting out in 1996–1997. The
additional information. Committee had requested information to clarify the type of
2. The Committee notes from the summary of the
Secretary-General’s report that in preparing the report on
outsourcing practices, full account had been taken of the
reports of the Joint Inspection Unit (JIU) (A/52/338, annex)
and the report of the Office of Internal Oversight Services
(A/52/813, annex).
3. In this connection, the Committee recalls its views on
the need for the Secretariat to establish the scope and criteria
for contracting out for selected technical functions. In its
report A/50/7, (para. 20), the Committee had stated that it1
trusted that future proposals for contracting out United
Nations services would be developed on the basis of clear
criteria, including not only the cost-effectiveness but also the
need to ensure reliability and flexibility in the service to be
provided. It was also essential to ensure that the special
requirements of the United Nations as an international
organization, including requirements of the Charter of the
United Nations, were not adversely affected. In the same
report (para. VIII.22), the Committee had noted that although 5. Having considered the report of the Secretary-General
contracting out for selected technical functions had been and taking into account the testimony of his representatives,

2

technical functions that would be contracted out but had not
received a reply. In its report (A/52/7, chap. II, part VIII,3
para. VIII.48) on the proposed budget for 1998–1999, the
Committee reiterated that the budget submission should have
included the scope or criteria for contracting out for selected
technical functions.
4. The report of the Secretary-General under consideration
(A/53/818) attempts, inter alia, to describe the purpose, set
the policy and guidelines for outsourcing and define functions
that could be contracted out. In paragraph 8 of the report, the
Secretary-General defines outsourcing as “contracting with
a third party to provide non-core activities and services
(including, where applicable, related goods), which activities
and services have been or could be provided by United
Nations staff”. The representatives of the Secretary-General
informed the Committee that the list of functions which could
be contracted out as set forth in paragraph 8 of the report
were based on the information in the JIU report.

ODS JOB NON9913208EODS JOB NO ODS DOC SYMBOL1A/53/942ODS DOC SYMBOL1 ODS DOC SYMBOL2ODS DOC SYMBOL2 



A/53/942

2

the Committee has concluded that the identification of each the JIU report, it is stated that in the light of the budgetary
of these functions has not been based on experience within constraints facing the organizations and competition for
the Secretariat of the United Nations. The functions are not scarce resources, it is not considered appropriate to appoint
specific as to what should or should not be contracted out. specific outsourcing facilitators (see A/52/338/Add.1, para.
The report has no analysis of experience within the United 6).
Nations Secretariat, and statistical data provided to the
Committee was insufficient and inconclusive. The Committee
was informed that in the funds and programmes of the United
Nations, many of the functions listed in paragraph 8 of the
Secretary-General’s report could be contracted out, based on
the experience of these entities. However, since the United
Nations does not have this experience, more attention would
be required within the United Nations Secretariat to identify
the activities that could be contracted out. A decision on
whether a function should be contracted out has therefore to
be made on a case-by-case basis as well as a decision on
whether a function can be wholly or partially contracted; the
primary responsibility rests with the programme manager.
6. In paragraph 43 of the report, it is stated that as is made to appoint any facilitator it should first be ascertained
experience and confidence with outsourcing grows, whether the related functions could be carried out within
outsourcing would include non-core substantive activities and existing contracting arrangements.
services in addition to non-core support type activities and
services. The Advisory Committee questions the utility of
categorizing as “core” and “non-core”. Such a classification
has the potential for creating endless debate and disagreement
within the Secretariat and among Member States as to
whether, based on its classification, an activity should or
should not be contracted out. Accordingly, the Committee
recommends that such classification be dispensed with.
7. JIU, in recommendation 3 of its report (A/52/338, Organization to resort to outsourcing of functions, the cost
annex) had stated that the executive heads of participating benefit derived from outsourcing of functions should be
organizations should prepare, for approval at the appropriate significant and not “at least” as cost-effective as when the
level, changes in the structure and/or operating procedures United Nations has been doing them on its own, as indicated
of their secretariats to facilitate and encourage the best use in paragraph 22 of the Secretary-General’s report.
of outsourcing, including the possible designation of an
official to serve as facilitator for this purpose. In
recommendation 13 of its report A/51/804, the OIOS had
recommended the establishment of a focal point with the
Department of Administration and Management who would
be responsible for identifying potential areas for outsourcing,
providing methodological support for cost/benefit analyses,
developing criteria and initiating “market testing” of selected
activities to determine whether they should be performed by
outside providers. In paragraph 42 of his report, the
Secretary-General agrees that efforts should now be
undertaken to identify such an outsourcing facilitator within
the Department of Management. In paragraphs 21 and 34 of
the Secretary-General’s report, the role of outsourcing teams
is set out. However, the Committee notes that in the comments
of the Administrative Committee on Coordination (ACC) on

8. It is not clear to the Committee, in the light of the
increasing delegation of authority to offices away from
Headquarters and to the field, whether it is intended to
appoint one or more facilitators in each department or station.
The Committee cautions against establishing additional
bureaucratic layers of decision-making in the Secretariat, as
does JIU in paragraph 99 of its report. Paragraph 16 of the
Secretary-General’s report states clearly that responsibility
and accountability rest with the responsible programme
manager for taking the outsourcing decision in the first place
and for the ultimate quality and cost of the outsourced activity
or service. Similar views are expressed in paragraph 19 of the
report. The Committee is of the view that before a decision

9. As indicated in the report of the Secretary-General,
contracting out has an impact on staff services and staff of the
unit concerned. For the outsourcing process to be successfully
carried out, management should institute effective measures
to involve the staff. This requires careful planning of
outsourcing activities; there would also be a need to train or
redeploy staff who have been displaced as a result of
outsourcing activities. Furthermore, in order for the

10. The Committee is also of the view that there has to be
transparency, through the budgetary process, with Member
States in order to engender confidence and maintain sustained
support for outsourcing activities. The Committee therefore
disagrees with the comments of ACC that it is not appropriate
for legislative organs to become involved in reviewing and
approving policies in this area. The Committee sees no reason
to believe that the involvement of legislative bodies would in
and of itself either lead to additional cost or to micro-
management. The Advisory Committee recommends that in
the context of the proposed programme budgets, the
Secretariat provide appropriate information on the extent to
which budgetary provisions are being requested for activities
that have been or if possible would be contracted out. Similar
information is currently provided, for example for



A/53/942

3

maintenance, cleaning, catering and contractual translation
services.

Notes

Official Records of the General Assembly, Fiftieth Session,1
Supplement No. 7.
Ibid., Supplement No. 6.2

Ibid., Fifty-second Session, Supplement No. 7.3


