
98-27759 (E) 021098

United Nations A/53/418

General Assembly Distr.: General22 September 1998
Original: English

Fifty-third session
Agenda item 143
Administrative and budgetary aspects of the financing of the
United Nations peacekeeping operations

Support account for peacekeeping operations

Report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and
Budgetary Questions

1. In his report (A/52/837) the Secretary-General support account for the period from 1 July 1998 to 30 June
requested 469 temporary support account posts for the period 1999 (A/52/837). In its related report (A/52/892), the
from 1 July 1998 to 30 June 1999 which, compared with the Advisory Committee indicated its intention “to resume
staffing table of 346 posts during the period from 1 July 1997 consideration of the requirements for the support account for
to 30 June 1998, reflects the establishment of 20 new posts, 1998–1999 in September 1998 after receipt of reliable data
the deletion of three posts and the conversion of 106 positions and analysis” (para. 14). Pending the submission by the
formally occupied by gratis personnel officers into temporary Secretariat of the requested data and analysis, the Advisory
support account posts. The Advisory Committee was Committee recommended at its spring 1998 session (see
informed that the net additional 123 posts were costed at 50 A/52/892) the establishment of four new posts for assets
per cent and that, had they been budgeted at full cost, the management and the conversion of 34 gratis positions to
estimate for the support account for the period from 1 July temporary posts, priority to be given to functions related to
1998 to 30 June 1999 would have amounted to $45.3 million. military expertise and civilian police (para. 14). The
Taking into account that the cost of backstopping of Committee also recommended an amount of $34.4 million for
peacekeeping operations provided from the regular budget the support account for the period from 1 July 1998 to 30
for the period from 1 July 1998 to 30 June 1999 is estimated June 1999. This amount would be prorated to the various
at $6.8 million, the overall cost of headquarters backstopping peacekeeping operations.
of peacekeeping operations for the period from 1 July 1998
to 30 June 1999 on the full cost basis is, therefore, estimated
at $52.1 million. The Advisory Committee notes from
paragraph 39 of the report of the Secretary-General
(A/52/837) that the overall cost of headquarters backstopping
of peacekeeping operations for the period from 1 July 1997
to 30 June 1998 was estimated at $56.0 million.
2. At its spring 1998 session, the Advisory Committee on
Administrative and Budgetary Questions considered the
report of the Secretary-General on the estimates for the

3. It is recalled that, in paragraph 11 of its report on the
support account (A/51/906), the Committee made the
following observation and recommendation with regard to the
quality of information included in the budget proposal for the
support account for the period 1 July 1997 to 30 June 1998:

“[F]or the most part, the budget submission does
not contain workload statistics in support of the
proposed staffing structure. Moreover, the mere
provision of raw data without a qualitative analysis is

ODS JOB NON9827759EODS JOB NO ODS DOC SYMBOL1A/53/418ODS DOC SYMBOL1 ODS DOC SYMBOL2ODS DOC SYMBOL2 



A/53/418

2

of minimum utility. The Secretariat should develop an of the Committee. In addition, annex I below contains updated
appropriate format for the systematic presentation of corrections to tables in the report of the Secretary-General.
a meaningful workload analysis.”

The Advisory Committee points out that the Secretariat has September 1998, there were 23 vacant support account posts
not yet responded to this specific recommendation. (including five posts under recruitment), or 6.7 per cent. The
4. In its resolution 52/248 of 26 June 1998, the General
Assembly decided, inter alia, to approve 400 support account
temporary posts and the support account posts and non-post
requirements of $34.4 million for the period from 1 July 1998
to 30 June 1999. In paragraph 19 of the same resolution, the
Assembly, inter alia,

“Notes that the Advisory Committee intends to
report in September 1998, having completed its
detailed post-by-post justification on the basis of the
information provided, on the workload of all posts, in
accordance with resolutions 51/243 and 51/239 A, and
would welcome its advice, as well as that of the
Secretary-General, on the structure of those
departments dealing with backstopping of
peacekeeping operations, including issues of
coordination and overlap”.

5. The Advisory Committee regrets to report that, in the
months following the adoption of General Assembly
resolution 52/248 little has been done to meet the explicit
concerns of the Advisory Committee concerning the quality
of information contained in the report of the Secretary-
General, nor has much been done to respond to the concerns
of the Fifth Committee expressed in paragraph 4 of Assembly
resolution 52/248 about “the contradictory and inconsistent
information provided to the Fifth Committee by
representatives of the Secretary-General on this issue which
affected adversely the deliberations of the Committee and
impeded informed and timely decisions”. The Committee also
points out that the General Assembly, in paragraph 7 of its
resolution 52/248, while recalling its earlier request for an
in-depth evaluation of the structure and staffing of those
divisions and units involved in the support of peacekeeping
operations, regretted “the lack of detail provided about the
evaluation and that the useful information subsequently
provided was not included in the original support account
submission of the Secretary-General”. The Advisory
Committee also points out that the Secretariat has not replied
to the requests contained in paragraph 19 of General
Assembly resolution 52/248 (see para. 4 above).
6. This situation has made the task of the Advisory
Committee to conduct a comprehensive review very difficult.
In the paragraphs below, the Advisory Committee indicates
areas where the lack of a reply to requests for clarification or
additional information has affected a specific recommendation

7. The Advisory Committee was informed that, as at 14

Committee recalls that, when it considered the proposed
requirements under the support account for the period from
1 July 1997 to 30 June 1998, the vacancy rate was 7 per cent.
The Advisory Committee was provided with a breakdown of
the latest vacancies by office and grade, which is contained
in annex II below. The Advisory Committee bore these
vacancy statistics in mind when considering the need for
additional posts as distinct from the requirement for a
particular function. The Advisory Committee also bore in
mind the fact that the total level of expenditure on
peacekeeping operations has decreased from a peak of more
than $3 thousand million to around $1 thousand million.
Despite all the explanations of the need to maintain a
minimum capacity and reference to the support required to
plan for future missions, or for those that did not materialize,
the fact remains that a diminution by more than two thirds
must have a significant impact on support requirements not
only in the Department of Peacekeeping Operations, but also
in other departments where some areas, such as procurement,
would be particularly affected by diminution of workload,
increased delegation of authority to the field and by other
reform measures.
8. Moreover, the Advisory Committee has in the past
pointed to the need to review the relationship between the
Department of Peacekeeping Operations and the Department
of Political Affairs to avoid duplication and overlap (see, for
example, paras. II.8 and II.9 of the Advisory Committee’s
first report on the proposed programme budget for the
biennium 1998–1999 and paras. II.15 and II.35 of the1
Advisory Committee’s first report on the proposed
programme budget for the biennium 1996–1997). The2
Committee also recalls that the General Assembly, in its
resolutions 50/214 and 52/220 of 23 December 1995 and 22
December 1997, respectively, requested that the Secretary-
General ensure the clear delineation of responsibilities
between the Department of Peacekeeping Operations and the
Department of Political Affairs. Similarly, there is possible
duplication between some functions performed by the
Department of Management and the administration in the
field. Under the circumstances, and taking into account that
stated in paragraph 7 above, the Advisory Committee has
concluded in a number of instances below that, while a
particular function needs to be added, the requirement for
posts could be met through redeployment after a thorough
review of the current structure throughout the Secretariat. The



A/53/418

3

results of this review and redeployment should be reported 11. Paragraphs 5 to 12 of the report provide information
in the context of the next report of the Secretary-General on relevant to the development of the Rapidly Deployable
the support account. The Advisory Committee emphasizes Mission Headquarters; as indicated in paragraph 5, the
that. in keeping with past requests, this review should cover General Assembly, by its resolution 50/30 of 6 December
posts funded from all sources. 1995 endorsed the proposals, recommendations and

New support account posts

9. The Secretary-General proposes the establishment of
20 new posts as follows:

Department of Peacekeeping Operations
Eight posts – Rapidly Deployable Mission

Headquarters of the Planning
Division (one P-5, six P-4 and one
P-3);

One post – Civilian Police Unit of the Planning
Division (one D-1);

Eight posts – Electronic Services Section of the
Field Administration and Logistics
Division, for peacekeeping assets
management (one P-4, three P-3, one
General Service (Principal level) and
three General Service (Other level));

Office of Internal Oversight Services
Two posts – Investigation Section (one P-4 and

one General Service);

Department of Management
One post – Contribution Service of the Financial

Management Office (one General
Service).

Rapidly Deployable Mission Headquarters
10. Out of the total of 20 new posts, eight are requested for
the Rapidly Deployable Mission Headquarters which,
according to the Secretary-General, will enable the United
Nations to quickly deploy a cohesive team of essential civilian
and military personnel who will help to ensure that the
deployment and initial phases of peacekeeping operations are
well managed in the field; the Rapidly Deployable Mission
Headquarters will thus provide an immediate capacity with
which to begin the mandate’s implementation. The eight new
posts comprise six military officers, one humanitarian affairs
officer and one civilian police officer.

conclusions contained in the report of the Special Committee
on Peacekeeping Operations (A/50/230). In paragraph 81 of
its report, the Special Committee, inter alia, urged the
Secretary-General to develop a rapidly deployable
headquarters team comprised of personnel skilled in essential
military and civilian functions. As indicated in paragraph 7
of the Secretary-General’s report, the General Assembly, by
its resolution 51/219 of 18 December 1996, adopted the
proposed medium-term plan for the period 1998–2001, which
listed among activities “the development, in the most
transparent manner, of a rapidly deployable team composed
of persons skilled in the essential military and civilian
headquarters functions giving detailed consideration to its
structure and mode of funding”.
12. The Committee recalls that the original intention had
been to finance the Rapidly Deployable Mission Headquarters
through voluntary contributions; to this effect, a trust fund had
been established and had received voluntary contributions and
pledges amounting to $475,100. This amount, however, fell
far short of the nearly $3.2 million that, in the opinion of the
Secretary-General, was necessary for the first two years of
functioning of the Rapidly Deployable Mission Headquarters,
thus leading to the proposal to fund the Rapidly Deployable
Mission Headquarters from the support account. The
Advisory Committee points out, in this regard, that no
statements of programme budget implications had been
presented in connection with the draft resolutions on the
establishment of the Rapidly Deployable Mission
Headquarters. The Committee recalls that, during its
consideration of the proposed estimates for the support
account for the period from 1 July 1997 to 30 June 1998, the
Committee was informed that a separate report of the
Secretary-General to the General Assembly was being
prepared on the Rapidly Deployable Mission Headquarters
(see A/51/906, para. 36). Since no such report was submitted
to the General Assembly, the Advisory Committee requests
that it be submitted as soon as possible.
13. The Advisory Committee requests that, in the future,
the Secretariat adhere strictly to relevant rules and regulations
concerning recommendations of all intergovernmental bodies
which may result in financial or administrative implications
for the Organization.
14. As indicated in paragraph 10 of the Secretary-General’s
report, the Rapidly Deployable Mission Headquarters is
envisaged as a three-tiered structure, with 8 persons serving



A/53/418

4

full-time (6 military officers, 1 humanitarian affairs officer redeployment from within the existing support account
and 1 civilian police officer), 29 being drawn from existing establishment throughout the Secretariat. The Committee,
resources of personnel fully employed by the Secretariat, but however, has no objection to the request for the establishment
who could be taken away from their duties on short notice for of two P-4 posts: one for a humanitarian affairs officer and
a period of up to three months, and 24 persons from countries one for a civilian police officer. The Advisory Committee
with standby arrangements with the United Nations, who points out that, given the nature of the function of the Rapidly
would remain in their countries until deployment. The Deployable Mission Headquarters posts, consideration will
Advisory Committee was provided, upon request, with the also have to be given at a future time to their mode of funding.
functional breakdown of the Rapidly Deployable Mission
Headquarters team, which is reproduced in annex III below.
15. The Committee notes that the eight additional posts for
the Rapidly Deployable Mission Headquarters discussed
above are proposed for the Planning Division of the
Department of Peacekeeping Operations. The Committee is
concerned about what appears to be a fragmented approach
to planning functions within that Department. As can be seen
from the report, various types of planning functions are
currently being performed by most of its units and offices. The
Advisory Committee recalls, in this connection, that the
Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations, in paragraph
101 of its report (A/53/127), urged the Secretariat “to clarify
the headquarters element’s organizational relationship within
the Department, particularly the differences in its functional
responsibilities from those of the Mission Planning Service,
and further to develop the concept for its employment during
the initial phase of a new peacekeeping operation”. The
Committee is of the view that planning functions of the
Department should be reviewed with a view to their
streamlining and consolidation. This will allow better
utilization of the human resources of the Department, part of
which could be redeployed to perform functions related to the
Rapidly Deployable Mission Headquarters.
16. While the Advisory Committee agrees that the eight
posts requested for the Rapidly Deployable Mission
Headquarters are needed, it questions whether it is justified
to authorize all eight as additional posts for this purpose,
rather than to meet some of these requirements through
redeployment. As indicated above, six of the requested eight
additional posts would be for serving military officers. The
Committee was informed that there were 17 military officer
and civilian police positions available to the Department of
Peacekeeping Operations and, as at 18 September 1998, 14
were encumbered. In addition, the Secretary-General
proposes the conversion of 36 gratis positions in the
Department into temporary posts to be filled by military
officers.
17. Under the circumstances, the Committee recommends
that, subject to further refinement of the operation of the
Rapidly Deployable Mission Headquarters, the requested six
positions for military officers be provided through

Civilian Police Unit
18. As indicated in paragraph 13 of the Secretary-General’s
report (A/52/837), one new post at the D-1 level is requested
for the Civilian Police Unit in the Department of
Peacekeeping Operations, pursuant to resolution 52/69 of 10
December 1997, in which the General Assembly endorsed the
proposals, recommendations and conclusions of the Special
Committee on Peacekeeping Operations. In paragraph 74 of
the Special Committee’s report (A/52/209) it once again
urged the Secretary-General to continue his efforts to
strengthen the Civilian Police Unit within the Department of
Peacekeeping Operations. Additional information on the
functions and responsibilities of the Civilian Police Unit is
contained in paragraphs 80 to 83 of annex I to the Secretary-
General’s report; the Committee notes from paragraph 82 that
the involvement of civilian police in United Nations
peacekeeping missions has grown considerably in recent
years and that there was every indication that, given the
changing nature of the United Nations post-conflict
intervention, the trend may continue. In this connection, the
Committee notes from table 23 of annex I to the Secretary-
General’s report that, in addition to the proposed
establishment of a D-1 post, the Secretary-General proposes
the conversion of four gratis positions (three P-4 and one P-3)
of the Civilian Police Unit to temporary posts (see para. 38
below), thus increasing the number of support account posts
from two to seven. The Advisory Committee recommends that
a D-1 post be approved for the Civilian Police Unit, as
requested by the Secretary-General.

Peacekeeping assets management

19. The establishment of eight new posts (one P-4, three
P-3 and four General Service) is proposed for the Electronic
Services Section of the Field Administration and Logistics
Division of the Department of Peacekeeping Operations, for
the implementation of the peacekeeping assets management
function. The Committee points out that four of those posts
(one P-4, two P-3 and one General Service) are a
resubmission of a previous request for the period from 1 July
1997 to 30 June 1998 in connection with the field assets
control system which was to be fully finalized and deployed



A/53/418

5

before 31 December 1998, depending on the availability of The Committee also notes from table 20 of annex II to the
resources. The Advisory Committee had indicated that it had report (A/52/837), that the staffing table of OIOS for the
no objection to the request of the Secretary-General, on the biennium 1998–1999 reflects an increase of one regular
understanding that the need for the four posts should be met budget post and one (other) temporary post. The Committee
through redeployment. The General Assembly, by its recalls that three regular budget posts (one D-1, two P-3) of
resolution 52/1 of 15 October 1997, endorsed the proposal the Investigation Section were converted from temporary into
for the development and implementation of the field assets established posts for the biennium 1998–1999 and that one
control system; took note of the intention of the Secretary- General Service (Other level) post was redeployed to the
General to continue to develop the field mission logistic Section from the Central Evaluation Unit. The Committee
system; and decided to consider the question during the points out that the Office of Internal Oversight Services uses
second part of its resumed fifty-second session. resources budgeted under peacekeeping operations when
20. The Advisory Committee was informed during the
hearing on the Secretary-General’s proposals that the
Secretariat was unable to redeploy the four posts initially
requested by the Secretary-General for the development and
implementation of the field assets control system. Under the
circumstances, the Advisory Committee supported the
establishment of the four new posts (one P-4, two P-3 and one
General Service), as reflected in paragraph 14 of its report
(A/52/892). However, the need for the remaining four posts
during the period from 1 July 1998 to 30 June 1999 should
be met through redeployment from within the existing support
account establishment throughout the Secretariat. The need
for these posts should be re-examined after the completion
of the field assets control system.

Office of Internal Oversight Services
21. Two new posts (one P-4 and one General Service) are posts in the Contributions Service for the biennium
requested by the Secretary-General for the Investigation 1998–1999 decreased by one General Service post. The
Section of the Office of Internal Oversight Services. Committee recalls that, in paragraph 26 of its report on
According to the Secretary-General, “the number of support account requirements for the period from 1 July 1997
peacekeeping-related investigations conducted by the Office to 30 June 1998 (A/51/906) it did not “support this prima
has been significant. However, thus far, no support account facie transfer from the regular budget to the support account”.
posts have been provided to the Office for the performance The Advisory Committee reiterates its position that the post
of this function” (see A/52/837, para. 15). The Committee should not be established.
was informed, upon enquiry, that the number of ongoing
investigations during the period from 1 July 1997 to 28
February 1998 was 41, compared with 57 for the 12-month
period ending on 30 June 1997. The Advisory Committee also
notes that, in addition to 81 current regular budget posts, as
shown in table 20 of annex II to the report, the staffing
structure of OIOS for the 1997–1998 period provides for 11
support account posts and 2 gratis personnel officers, making
a total of 94 positions. The Committee notes from annex III
to the Secretary-General’s report on gratis personnel
(A/C.5/52/56) that there were no type II gratis personnel in
the Office of Internal Oversight Services as at 30 June 1998.
As the gratis personnel are being phased out, the proposal for
a total of 96 posts amounts, in effect, to a request to convert
the two former gratis positions into support account posts.

conducting auditing and the Committee sees no reason why
the same approach cannot be used for investigation. The
Committee recommends against the proposed establishment
of a General Service post; it further recommends that any
need for the P-4 post for investigation functions during the
period from 1 July 1998 to 30 June 1999 should be met
through redeployment from within the existing support
account establishment throughout the Secretariat.

Department of Management

22. The Secretary-General requests one new General
Service post for the Contributions Service of the Financial
Management Office of the Department of Management “in
view of the workload it has to address” (see A/52/837, para.
16).
23. The Committee notes that the number of regular budget

Conversion of gratis personnel positions to
additional support account posts

Department of Peacekeeping Operations
24. Paragraphs 17 to 20 of the Secretary-General’s report
deal with gratis personnel. In accordance with General
Assembly resolution 51/243 of 15 September 1997, type II
gratis personnel are to be phased out. As indicated in section
III, paragraph 19, and in table 2, annex I, to the report, 106
additional support account posts are requested in replacement
of 134 gratis personnel, following the in-depth evaluation and
comprehensive review of the Department. According to the
Secretary-General, should the General Assembly approve the



A/53/418

6

conversion of the 106 gratis personnel positions into be reviewed, taking also into account its observations and
temporary support account posts, approximately 36 of such comments reflected in paragraph 15 above.
posts which require expertise not available in the Secretariat
will be advertised externally for military officers.
25. The breakdown of the proposed conversions of 106
gratis personnel positions into temporary support account
posts by offices and functions, including those positions
which require military officers, is contained in annex IV
below.

Office of the Military Adviser seven support account posts in the Executive Office during
26. The conversion of eight gratis positions to eight
additional support account posts (two P-4, two P-3, one
General Service (Principal level) and three General Service
(Other level)) is proposed for the Office of the Military
Adviser. The Committee notes from table 4 of annex I to the
report that, during the period 1997–1998, the Office had
three regular budget posts, three support account posts and
13 gratis personnel positions. The Advisory Committee was
informed by the Secretariat that, during the classification 29. The Committee is of the view that the increasing use of
exercise, it was determined that two P-3 posts out of the the Integrated Management Information System should lead
proposed eight posts will no longer be required and that one to greater productivity in the Executive Office. The
of the proposed P-4 posts was classified at the P-3 level. The Committee expresses serious concern at what would appear
revised request is therefore for one P-4, one P-3, one General to be a slow pace of introduction of new technology to process
Service (Principal level) and three General Service (Other a number of functions in the office. The Committee was
level). Bearing in mind the recent trends in military aspects informed, for example, that the processing of some basic
of the United Nations peacekeeping operations, the Advisory personnel actions, such as work attendance and leave
Committee recommends the conversion of three gratis entitlements, is still being done manually. The Advisory
positions into additional support account posts (one P-4, one Committee, for the reasons stated in paragraphs 12 to 18 of
P-3 and one General Service (Other level)). The Advisory annex I to the report of the Secretary-General, supports the
Committee recommends against the establishment of the conversion of three gratis positions into three additional posts
General Service Principal level post; the need for the for the Executive Office for the budget period 1998–1999.
remaining two General Service posts (Other level) should be At the same time, the Committee requests that the staffing
met through redeployment from within the existing support requirements of the Executive Office be thoroughly reviewed;
account establishment throughout the Secretariat. results of the review should be reflected in the proposal for
27. The Advisory Committee notes from paragraph 2 of
annex I to the report (A/52/837) that the Office of the Military
Adviser, as part of the Office of the Under-Secretary-General
for the Department of Peacekeeping Operations, provides
advice on all military matters and, in addition, the Military
Adviser and his Deputy, as Director and Deputy Director of
the Planning Division, are responsible for the supervision and
coordination of all planning in respect of peacekeeping
operations. The Advisory Committee understands that in the
latter capacity, the Military Adviser and his Deputy report to
the Assistant Secretary-General for the Office of Planning and
Support. The Advisory Committee, however, is of the view
that many functions currently carried out by the Office of the
Military Adviser are also carried out by the Planning
Division. The Committee considers that this situation should

Executive Office
28. The conversion of three gratis positions into three
additional support account posts (one P-3 and two General
Service (Other level)) is requested for the Executive Office
of the Department. The Advisory Committee was informed
by the Secretariat that the proposed P-3 post was classified
at the P-2 level. As indicated in table 7 of annex I, there were

the budget period 1997–1998. The Committee was informed,
on enquiry, that the three additional posts for the Executive
Office represent conversions from gratis positions previously
included in the Office of the Military Adviser. Those positions
were used in support of administration of the gratis and
seconded military personnel, that is, functions which, the
Committee believes, should not have been performed by
gratis personnel.

the support account for the period from 1 July 1999 to 30
June 2000.

Office of Operations
30. The proposed staffing table for the Office of Operations
of the Department reflects the conversion of 14 gratis
positions into 14 additional support account posts, as follows:
one P-4 post in the Asia and Middle East Division, one P-4
post in the Europe and Latin America Division and 12 posts
(two P-4, eight P-3 and two General Service) in the Situation
Centre.
31. With regard to the requested additional P-4 post for the
Asia and Middle East Division, the Advisory Committee did
not find convincing arguments for the proposal, especially in



A/53/418

7

terms of additional workload to be performed. The Advisory gratis positions which no longer will be available for the
Committee notes from table 11 of annex I to the report Centre during the budget period 1998–1999; there are 11
(A/52/837) that, during the period 1997–1998, there were no support account posts and no regular budget posts in the
gratis positions in the Division. With respect to the reference staffing table of the Centre.
to monitoring developments in Afghanistan, reflected in
paragraph 38 of annex I to the report, the Secretariat clarified
that this function, which relates mostly to political aspects of
developments in that country, is part of the overall
responsibilities of the Department of Political Affairs and the
Department of Peacekeeping Operations’ involvement in it
is quite limited. The Committee, in paragraph 8 above, has
referred to its request to clarify the roles of the Department
of Peacekeeping Operations and the Department of Political
Affairs. The Committee also recalls, in this connection, the
comments and recommendations of the Special Committee
on Peacekeeping Operations referred to in paragraph 15
above. The Advisory Committee does not believe that the
establishment of a P-4 post in Asia and Middle East Division
is warranted and it recommends against approval of the
proposal.
32. With regard to the proposed conversion of one gratis
position into an additional P-4 post for the Europe and Latin
America Division which, as indicated in paragraph 40 of
annex I to the report, supported six ongoing peacekeeping
operations, the Advisory Committee points out that the report
should have been more accurate. For example, paragraph 41
of annex I to the report, which provides information on “a new
mission, the United Nations Police Support Group” should
have indicated that the Security Council (by its resolution
1145 (1997)) established the Support Group with a mandate
limited to a single nine-month period from 16 January to 15
October 1998. The Advisory Committee points out that one
peacekeeping operation supported by the Division, the United
Nations Transitional Administration for Eastern Slavonia,
Baranja and Western Sirmium is being liquidated and is,
therefore, not convinced by the statement in paragraph 40 of
annex I to the report that “the workload of the Division will
remain at its current level for the next financial period”. The
Advisory Committee notes that, during the period
1997–1998, there were three gratis positions in the Division
which will no longer be available during the period
1998–1999. The Committee is not convinced that the
projected workload for the period from 1 July 1998 to 30 June
1999 justifies the establishment of an additional P-4 post for
the Division.
33. In connection with the proposed conversion of 12 gratis
positions into additional 12 support account posts (two P-4,
eight P-3 and two General Service) for the Situation Centre,
the Advisory Committee notes from table 13 of annex I to the
report, that during the period 1997–1998, there were 16

34. The Committee recalls that in paragraph 18 of its report
on the support account (A/51/906), it pointed out that “the
time has come to evaluate the operation of the Centre and its
resource requirements, with a view to determining its cost-
effectiveness” and recommended that “the results of the
evaluation be reflected in the next budget submission of the
Secretary-General on the support account”.
35. According to paragraphs 49 and 50 of annex I to the
report, the evaluation has been carried out together with a
study of the functions of the Situation Centre; paragraph 50
lists the current responsibilities of the Centre. The Advisory
Committee regrets that the report does not contain
information on the terms of reference for the evaluation of the
Centre, the manner in which it was carried out, or the findings
of the evaluation, nor does the report contain any specific
information on the workload of the Centre or the division of
responsibilities among its military and civilian components.
No indication was provided in the report with regard to new
functions and responsibilities that were assigned to the Centre
as a result of the evaluation and the study. It is recalled that
the Committee recommended in paragraph 18 of its report on
the support account (A/51/906) that the operation of the
Centre be evaluated “with a view to determining its cost-
effectiveness”. The Secretariat has failed to include in the
report of the Secretary-General information which could
contribute to determining cost-effectiveness of the Situation
Centre. The Committee is not satisfied with the fact that the
only conclusion of the study which was reflected in the report
of the Secretary-General was that “the Centre was performing
a series of valuable activities, but that it should be providing
its services to a wider group of departments and to the
Executive Office of the Secretary-General on a more formal
basis” (see A/52/837, annex I, para. 49). The Committee
notes from paragraph 51 of annex I to the report, that the
Centre ”has been put under the direct supervision of the
Assistant Secretary-General responsible for the Office of
Operations in DPKO”.
36. The Advisory Committee points out that the budget
submission for the Situation Centre does not contain workload
indicators which could justify the establishment of all 12
additional posts requested. The Committee’s review of the
functions of these 12 posts led it to conclude that the
establishment of all 12 posts for the Situation Centre is not
warranted for the next budget period. Some functions appear
to be overly ambitious and unnecessarily complex. For
example, the functions of the head of the Information and



A/53/418

8

Research Unit (a P-4 post) specify that he/she “oversees all the Logistics and Communications Service and one P-3 post
points of contact between media and other information for the Personnel Management and Support Service.
agencies, UN Political and Military desk officers and national
information sources for matters pertaining to research and
analysis of information”. The Advisory Committee is of the
view that functions currently assigned to the Information and
Research Unit should be streamlined and the responsibilities
of its staff defined much more clearly. The Committee
recommends that only seven additional posts, out of the
requested 12, be established (one P-4, five P-3 and one
General Service) for the Situation Centre.
37. The conversion of 23 out of a total of 27 gratis positions Unit, two P-3 posts for the Systems and Data Analysis Unit
is proposed for the Planning Division, in addition to eight new and two General Service (Principal level) posts for the
posts for the Rapidly Deployable Mission Headquarters and Financial Support Section. The Committee raised numerous
one new post for the Civilian Police Unit referred to in questions in an attempt to clarify data reflected in the budget
paragraphs 10 to 18 above. The distribution of the 23 posts submission for the Field Administration and Logistics
by offices and grades is as follows: one P-5, 11 P-4 and one Division. For example, the Committee enquired into the
General Service for the Mission Planning Service, three P-4 implication of a statement in paragraph 91 of annex I to the
and one P-3 for the Civilian Police Unit and four P-4 and two report, that “the staffing indicated for the Office of the
P-3 for the Training Unit. Director in the previous support account budget was
38. As indicated in paragraph 15 above, the Committee is
concerned about what appears to be unnecessary proliferation
and fragmentation of planning functions within the 41. The Advisory Committee is concerned about what
Department of Peacekeeping Operations. The Committee is appears to be an excessive fragmentation in organizational
of the view that these functions should be streamlined and structure of the Field Administration and Logistics Division
consolidated. The Advisory Committee recommends the which comprises a large number of small units and it requests
conversion of 13 gratis positions into additional posts out of that the structure be reviewed and results of the review be
the requested 23 for the Planning Division as follows: one P-5 reflected in the budget proposal for the support account for
and five P-4 for the Mission Planning Service, three P-4 and the period 1999–2000.
one P-3 for the Civilian Police Unit in view of expanding
volume of police functions in United Nations peacekeeping
operations and two P-4 and one P-3 for the Training Unit.

Field Administration and Logistics Division

39. The conversion of 58 gratis positions is requested for
the Field Administration and Logistics Division of the
Department, in addition to the eight new posts for the
Electronic Services Section of the Division referred to in
paragraphs 19 and 20 above. The staffing table of the
Division was omitted from the budget submission and is
reproduced as annex V below. As can be seen, the
1997–1998 staffing structure of the Division provides for 24
regular budget posts, 154 support account posts and 68 gratis
positions. The distribution, by offices and grades, of the 58
additional support account posts to be converted from gratis
positions is as follows: 17 posts (two P-4, 10 P-3, three
General Service (Principal level) and two General Service
(Other level)) for the Finance Management and Support
Service, 40 posts (one P-5, nine P-4, 28 P-3 and two P-2) for

40. Out of the 17 proposed conversions for the Finance
Management and Support Service, the Secretary-General
requests two posts (one P-4 and one P-3) for the Office of the
Chief of Service, one General Service (Other level) post for
the Office of the Chief of Claims and Information
Management Section, nine posts (seven P-3, one General
Service (Principal level) and one General Service (Other
level)) for the Contingent-Owned Equipment Claims Unit,
one P-3 post for the Death and Disability and Other Claims

incorrect”. The Secretariat failed to respond to the
Committee’s enquiry.

42. The budget submission contains no information, nor
justification in support of the proposed conversion of three
gratis positions into support account posts for the Office of
the Chief of Finance Management and Support Service (one
P-4 and one P-3) and for the Office of the Chief of Claims and
Information Management Section (one General Service
(Other level)). The Secretariat failed to provide the
Committee with requested justification for the conversions.
The Committee, while regretting this situation, nevertheless
recommends conversion of two posts (one P-4 and one P-3)
for the Finance Management and Support Service since it
believes, in general, that this vital area has suffered from
understaffing. The Committee does not recommend the
establishment of an additional General Service post for the
Office of the Chief of the Claims and Information
Management Section.
43. With respect to the request for nine additional posts
(seven P-3, one General Service (Principal level) and one
General Service (Other level)) for the Contingent-Owned
Equipment Claims Unit, the Advisory Committee notes that,



A/53/418

9

during the period 1997–1999, there were 14 gratis positions new streamlined procedures for processing of claims, the
in the Unit, in addition to five support account posts and three Advisory Committee is not convinced that the request for the
regular budget posts. The Advisory Committee expresses establishment of one additional P-3 post for the Death and
serious concern that the bulk of the work of the Unit is being Disability Unit is justified.
done by gratis personnel. The Committee notes from
paragraph 97 of annex I to the report, that “the present
backlog in contingent-owned equipment, letters of assist and
spare parts claims will require several months of intensive
work before the operation becomes current”. The Committee
was informed, upon enquiry, that as of end of March 1998,
there were 156 contingent-owned equipment claims under
various stages of review or negotiations and 19 cases which
had not yet been examined; there were also 204 letters of
assist and spare parts claims that remained outstanding. The
Advisory Committee was also informed that the final
processing of the outstanding backlog in contingent-owned
equipment, letters of assists and spare parts claims will take
several months to clear and to bring the operation to a routine
status. Moreover, the Committee was informed that the
reduced requirements for general temporary assistance funds
for the Department of Peacekeeping Operations from
$318,500 in 1997–1998 to $100,000 for 1998–1999 reflect
the non-continuation of general temporary assistance funds
previously provided for the backlog of contingent-owned
equipment claims; in addition, these requirements were
further reduced in the light of recorded savings under general
temporary assistance for the period ending on 30 June 1998.
44. Information on contingent-owned equipment
arrangements is also contained in part VII of the Advisory
Committee’s general report on administrative and budgetary
aspects of the financing to peacekeeping operations
(A/52/860). The Committee is of the view that the Secretary-
General’s report does not take full account of the fact that new
contingent-owned equipment arrangements should lead to less
staff required to process contingent-owned equipment claims.
The Committee, taking into account additional information
on progress in clearing the outstanding backlog, recommends
the establishment of four Professional posts for the
contingent-owned equipment Claims Unit, out of seven
Professional posts requested by the Secretary-General. The
Committee recommends against the one General Service post
(Other level); the need for one General Service (Principal
level) post should be met through redeployment from within
the existing support account establishment throughout the
Secretariat.
45. The Advisory Committee was provided with job
descriptions for all posts in the Death and Disability and
Other Claims Unit, except for the requested additional P-3
post, the functions of which were described simply as
“generic”. Under the circumstances, and bearing in mind the

46. The conversion of two gratis positions to P-3 support
account posts is requested for the Systems and Data Analysis
Unit which, during the 1997–1998 period had three gratis
positions, in addition to two support account posts. As
indicated in paragraph 102 of annex I to the report, one of the
functions of the Unit is the update of the standard cost manual
and preparation of standard ratios based on historical data and
experience in the field. However, the Advisory Committee has
pointed out in its general report on peacekeeping operations
(A/52/860) that peacekeeping budget estimates are often
prepared on the basis of outdated standard ratios which do not
take account of recent experience in the implementation of
peacekeeping budgets. In the same report, the Committee
recommended that a thorough review be made of the standard
cost ratios and the related manual. To this end, and so as to
ensure that such review is undertaken expeditiously, the
Committee has no objection to the request for these additional
two P-3 posts.
47. The conversion of two General Service (Principal level)
gratis positions is proposed for the Financial Support Section
which, during the 1997–1998 budget period, had 15 support
account posts, two gratis positions and four regular budget
posts. The Committee notes from paragraphs 109 and 115 of
annex I to the report, that one of the two proposed additional
posts is requested for the Africa Unit (one General Service
(Principal level)) and the other for the Europe and Latin
America Unit (one General Service (Principal level)). In
addition, the upgrading of one P-3 post to the P-4 level is
requested for the Liquidation Unit. The Committee points out
that a substantial amount of work related to the liquidation
phase of peacekeeping operations is done in the field or by
officers paid from peacekeeping budgets. The Committee was
informed that the requested general service posts were
classified at a lower (Other) level. The Committee
recommends that the need for these two General Service
(Other level) posts be met through redeployment from within
the existing support account establishment throughout the
Secretariat. The Committee has no objection to the requested
upgrading.
48. The staffing proposal for the Logistics and
Communication Service of the Division provides for the
conversion of 40 out of 41 gratis positions to support account
posts and the establishment of eight new posts for the
implementation of the peacekeeping assets management
function referred to in paragraphs 19 and 20 above. The



A/53/418

10

proposed distribution of a total of 48 additional posts is as in United Nations peacekeeping operations located in Africa,
follows: Europe, Latin America, Asia and the Middle East. The

eleven posts – Electronic Services Section;
eight posts – Engineering Section;
seven posts – Logistics Operations Section;
seven posts – Supply Section;
five posts – Medical Support Unit;
ten posts – Transport Section.

49. As shown above, 11 additional posts (two P-4, five P-3,
one General Service (Principal level) and three General
Service (Other level)) are requested for the Electronic
Services Section, including the eight new posts for the
implementation of the peacekeeping assets management
function in respect of which the Committee’s
recommendations and comments are contained in paragraphs
19 and 20 above. Consequently, the remaining additional
posts to be considered in this part of the report are one P-4
and two P-3. The Advisory Committee notes from table 37
of annex I to the report that, during the budget period
1997–1998, there were three gratis positions in the Section,
in addition to 14 support account posts and one regular
budget post. According to the Secretary-General, “while there
was a reduction in the number of fielded peace-keepers, the
number of operations supported actually increased, resulting
in an increase in the workload in the Section” (see A/52/837,
annex I, para. 122). Upon request, the Department of
Peacekeeping Operations clarified that, during 1997, it had
had a fairly stable number of peacekeeping missions, but that
it had been tasked with supporting small special missions and
field offices each of which, while not significantly changing
the number of peacekeepers, demanded the same amount of
headquarters support. Such small offices also often lacked
specialized technicians and therefore needed more support
from headquarters compared with larger missions. The
Advisory Committee recommends that the need for the
proposed additional three posts (one P-4 and two P-3) for the
Electronic Services Division be met through redeployment
from within the existing support account establishment
throughout the Secretariat.
50. The conversion of eight gratis positions into support
account posts (one P-4 and seven P-3) is proposed for the
Engineering Section, the staffing structure of which during
the budget period 1997–1998, provided for one regular
budget post, five support account posts and eight gratis
positions. The Committee has reviewed the functions of the
currently authorized posts and of the proposed additional
posts in the Section. The Committee notes that three proposed
additional P-3 posts of engineering operations officers will
be responsible for the day-to-day oversight and management
of the engineering programme and all related support issues

Committee points out that a significant amount of engineering
work is done in the field by the support units of peacekeeping
administration and it is not clear as to what type of additional
engineering support needs to be provided by desk engineers
at Headquarters. The Committee also points out that one of
the proposed additional posts (P-3) would deal with
assets/material management, and that this function is
performed by some other units of the Department of
Peacekeeping Operations. The Committee is of the view that
the functions of the posts in the Section should be more
clearly defined, streamlined and integrated. At the same time
the Committee saw the rationale in the proposal to maintain
a small team of professionals with in-depth knowledge in
various specialist fields of engineering. The Committee
recommends the establishment of four posts (one P-4 and
three P-3) out of the eight additional posts requested for the
Section.
51. Seven additional posts are requested for the Logistics
Operations Section through the conversion of seven current
gratis positions of the Section into support account posts (one
P-4 and six P-3). The main responsibilities of the Section and
the description of a few aspects of its functioning are
contained in paragraphs 129 to 135 of annex I to the report
(A/52/837). In the opinion of the Committee, the assertions
made in paragraph 133 of the report raise a serious issue. It
is stated that, due to lack of resources, a backlog of work has
developed which included “the development of logistics
policy, procedures and managerial tools to improve the
development and implementation of comprehensive
procedures for the reimbursement ... of contingent-owned
equipment in field missions; ... and the finalization of claims
related to self-sustainment by contingents in closed
peacekeeping missions”. The Committee points out that this
statement implies that reimbursement made thus far, or the
estimates included in peacekeeping budgets and performance
reports, may not have been based on well-developed
procedures and management tools. The Committee, in fact,
commented on these very shortcomings in its general report
on peacekeeping operations (A/52/860). In view of the
problems facing this section and the importance of the work
being carried out the Committee recommends two additional
posts (one P-4 and one P-3); in addition, the need for three
P-3 posts should be met through redeployment from within
the existing support account establishment throughout the
Secretariat. The Committee requests that the posts in the
Logistics Operations Section be administered with necessary
flexibility, allowing for a better response to changing
workload demands.



A/53/418

11

52. Although a request is made for the establishment of 55. According to the Secretary-General, the Surface
seven additional posts (four P-4, one P-3 and two P-2) for the Transport Unit administers 10,000 vehicles worldwide (see
Supply Section (see A/52/837, annex I, para. 141), table 40 A/52/837, annex I, para. 146), the Committee points out that,
reflects 12 additional support account posts. As clarified by firstly, due to the decrease in the level of peacekeeping
the Secretariat, table 40 of annex I to the report, incorporates operations it is unlikely that the Unit will continue to
staffing requirements for the Medical Support Unit (see para. administer the same number of vehicles in the 1998–1999
53 below). The request for seven additional posts reflects a financial period. The Advisory Committee was informed, on
conversion of seven gratis positions of the Section into enquiry, that the vehicle fleet strength was 8,397 vehicles of
support account posts. The Advisory Committee recalls its all types as at April 1998 and was estimated at 8,500 vehicles
concern that so many gratis personnel officers were involved as at 1 July 1998. Secondly, the use of centralized
in this Section. Paragraphs 137 to 140 of annex I to the procurement of standardized vehicles, including spare parts,
Secretary-General’s report contain a description of the main should bring greater productivity and efficiency in the
functions and responsibilities of the Section. The procurement and management of the United Nations fleet of
Committee’s review of the functions of the posts in the vehicles.
Section led it to conclude that the establishment of all seven
additional posts is not justified. The Committee recommends
that the need for three additional posts for contracts
management officers (one P-4, one P-3 and one P-2) be met
through redeployment from within the existing support
account establishment throughout the Secretariat.
53. The conversion of five gratis positions into support that the increasing use of air charter facilitates the movement
account posts (one P-5, one P-4 and three P-3) is requested of personnel. Moreover, it is not clear how the research work
for the Medical Support Unit which plans, organizes and mentioned in the Secretary-General’s report will give rise to
supports medical aspects of peacekeeping operations. The a need for additional staff.
Advisory Committee is concerned at the establishment of a
new medical infrastructure at Headquarters. The Committee
was informed that the objective was to deal with the question
of managing a large volume of medical supplies, including
inventory. The Committee was also informed that various
missions find themselves with large quantities of medical
assets which often arrive late in the mission area, owing to the
slow procurement process. The Medical Support Unit
provides advice on these and other matters. The Committee
is not convinced that, in order to solve the problem of medical
supply, there is a need to establish yet another unit in the
Secretariat. The question should be solved through proper
procurement planning. The Committee does not support the
establishment of five additional posts for the Medical Support
Unit and recommends instead that the need for two support
account posts for the Unit be met through redeployment from
within the existing support account establishment throughout
the Secretariat.
54. The conversion of 10 gratis positions into support
account posts (one P-4 and nine P-3) is requested for the
Transport Section, thereby increasing the number of support
posts from 15 to 25. The 10 additional posts would be
allocated as follows: two P-3 posts for the Surface Transport
Unit, two P-3 posts for the Air Transport Unit, one P-3 post
for the Aviation Safety Unit, four P-3 posts for the Movement
Control Unit and one P-4 post for the Sea Transport Unit.

56. With respect to the Movement Control Unit for which
four additional posts are requested, the Committee notes from
paragraph 158 of annex I to the report, that the number of
personnel moved by the Unit has dropped sharply from
280,000 in 1995 to 50,000 in 1997. In addition, the
Committee notes from paragraph 159 of annex I to the report,

57. With regard to the request for the conversion of a gratis
position to an additional support account P-4 post for the Sea
Transport Unit, the Committee notes from paragraph 162 of
annex I to the report, that the Unit planned, implemented and
monitored about 40 shipping services estimated at $30
million during 1996–1997, compared to approximately 30
shipments estimated at $15 million during 1997–1998.
58. Taking into account that stated in the paragraphs above,
the Advisory Committee recommends that only two gratis
positions of the Transport Section be converted to additional
support account posts, while the need for another two
additional support account posts be met through redeployment
from within the existing support account establishment
throughout the Secretariat.
59. The conversion of one gratis position into an additional
P-3 support account post is requested for the Personnel
Management and Support Service which, during the budget
period 1997–1998, had 10 regular budget posts, 52 support
account posts and three gratis positions. The Committee’s
review of the functions of posts in the Service shows that its
staff resources need to be further evaluated. The Advisory
Committee, therefore, does not recommend the establishment
of the requested additional post for the Section.



A/53/418

12

Non-post backstopping requirements of the for 1998–1999 will remain at its current level of 32. In this
Department of Peacekeeping Operations connection, the Committee refers to the comments and

60. Paragraphs 175 to 190 of annex I to the Secretary-
General’s report provide information on non-post
requirements of the Department of Peacekeeping Operations
estimated at $1,688,800 for the period from 1 July 1998 to
30 June 1999. These requirements reflect a decrease of
$459,700 or 21.4 per cent, compared with the related support
account resources of $2,148,500 budgeted for the current
period. The Advisory Committee has no objection to the
proposal. At the same time, the Committee points out that the
Secretariat needs to significantly improve budgetary planning
and performance with regard to support account expenditures.
For example, as can be seen from table 1 of annex I to the 64. Paragraphs 47 to 69 of annex II to the report provide
report, expenditures for the six-month period from July to information on support account staffing requirements for the
December 1997 amounted to only 4.9 per cent under general Office of Human Resources Management. The Committee
temporary assistance and 1.4 per cent under training, notes from paragraph 51 that comprehensive salary surveys
compared with the approved budget for the period July 1997 of best prevailing conditions of employment of locally
to June 1998, while expenditures under travel amounted to recruited staff are conducted on an 18-24 month cycle. The
78.0 per cent. Committee was informed that the surveys are conducted by

Other Secretariat departments and offices
involved in providing backstopping support

The Department of Management

61. The support account budget proposal for the
Department for the next financial period reflects a decrease
in support account posts from 105 to 103, the elimination of
4 gratis positions and an increase of posts funded from other
extrabudgetary sources from 132 to 133. The Secretariat has
failed to provide the Committee with clarification as to the
nature and source of funding of posts reflected in the column
entitled “Other temporary posts” in table 2 of annex II to the
Secretary-General’s report. The Committee requests that this
clarification be provided to the Fifth Committee.
62. The Committee points out that the decrease in support
account posts from 105 to 103 reflects, in fact, the net effect
of a decrease of three support account posts in the Secretariat
of the Advisory Committee and an increase of one support
account General Service post for the Contributions Service.
The Committee’s comments and recommendations with
regard to the requested new post for the Contributions Service
are reflected in paragraph 23 above.
63. The Advisory Committee finds useful the inclusion in
the report of a summary of workload indicators for the
Peacekeeping Financing Division for the period 1992–1997.
The summary demonstrates the increase in the Division’s
workload. As can be seen from table 5 in annex II to the
report, the number of support account posts of the Division

recommendations on the issue of the quality of preparation
of peacekeeping financial performance and budget reports
reflected in its report on general aspects of peacekeeping
operations (A/52/860). The Committee also stresses the need
for the representatives of the Peacekeeping Financing
Division of the Office of Programme Planning, Budget and
Accounts and the Field Administration and Logistics Division
to meet and discuss the issue of improving coordination and
cooperation and streamlining the relationship between them
to improve the budget preparation and implementation
process.

the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) on
behalf of the United Nations. The Committee is of the view
that there is a need to clarify the role of the Office of Human
Resources Management and UNDP in conducting the surveys.
The Advisory Committee also notes from paragraph 51 that
“at least one week per year for each operation is required for
reviewing and processing interim adjustment of local salary
scales”. The Advisory Committee has also submitted
comments on salary surveys in its general report on
peacekeeping operations (A/52/860).
65. The Committee notes from paragraph 62 of annex II
that a provision of $123,400, which is equivalent to the cost
of a P-4 post, is requested under general temporary assistance
for the Administrative Law Unit, which currently has no
support account post. The Advisory Committee recalls that,
paragraph III.21 of its first report on the proposed programme
budget for the biennium 1998–1999, it expressed the view
that legal functions in the Secretariat should be “better
performed by experienced staff, acquainted with United
Nations practice, on a permanent rather than temporary
basis”. Moreover, the Advisory Committee believes that it3
will not be appropriate to charge, on a continuous basis,
expenditures related to salary and common staff costs to the
general temporary assistance budget line. The situation should
be regularized and the Committee recommends, therefore,
that the provision of $123,400 for general temporary
assistance be deleted and, instead, a P-4 support post be
established for the Unit. Paragraphs 59 to 61 of the Secretary-
General’s report demonstrate the increase in workload of the
Unit. The Committee requests that priority be given to dealing



A/53/418

13

with the backlog cases referred to in paragraph 61 of annex
II to the report.
66. The comments and recommendations of the Advisory
Committee on the requested two new posts (one P-4 and one
General Service (Other level)) for the Office of Internal
Oversight Services are contained in paragraph 21 above. The
Committee has no objection to the proposed non-post
requirements for the Office of Internal Oversight Services.
67. The table below provides a recapitulation of the
Advisory Committee’s recommendations on the support
account staffing establishment for the budget period from 1
July 1998 to 30 June 1999:



A/53/418

14

Organizational Unit General in A/52/837 Additional posts Redeployment No ACABQ report
As proposed by Secretary- Paragraph in

As recommended by ACABQ

A. New support account posts
Rapidly Deployable Mission Headquarters 8 2 6 — 17
Civilian Police 1 1 — — 18
Assets management 8 4 4 — 19, 20
Office of Internal Oversight Services 2 — 1 1 21
Contributions Section 1 — — 1 23

Subtotal A 20 7 11 2

B. Conversion of gratis personnel
Military Adviser’s Office 8 3 2 3 26
Executive Office 3 3 — — 29
Asia/Middle East Division 1 — — 1 31
Europe/Latin America Division 1 — — 1 32
Situation Centre 12 7 — 5 36
Planning Division 23 13 — 10 38
Finance Management and Support Service 3 2 — 1 42
Contingent-owned equipment Claims Unit 9 4 1 4 44
Death and Disability Unit 1 — — 1 45
Systems Data Analysis Unit 2 2 — — 46
Finance Support Section 2 — 2 — 47
Electronics Service Division 3 — 3 — 49
Engineering Section 8 4 — 4 50
Logistics Operation Section 7 2 3 2 51
Supply Section 7 — 3 4 52
Medical Support Unit 5 — 2 3 53
Transport Section 10 2 2 6 58
Personnel Management Service 1 — — 1 59
OHRM Administrative Law Unit General temporary 1 — — 65a

assistance funds

Subtotal B 106 43 18 46

Total A and B 126 50 29 48

ACABQ Secretariat - 3 - 3 — —b

Grand Total 123 47 29 48

Secretary-General’s request is for 12 months of general temporary assistance at the P-4 level.a
Deletion of 3 posts from the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions Secretariat, transferred to the regularb
budget.



A/53/418

15

Notes
A/52/7 (chap. II, part II). To be issued as Official Records1
of the General Assembly, Fifty-second Session, Supplement
No. 7 (A/52/7/Rev.1).
A/51/7 (chap. II, part II). To be issued as Official Records2
of the General Assembly, Fifty-first Session, Supplement
No. 7 (A/51/7/Rev.1).
A/52/7 (chap. II, part III). To be issued as Official Records3
of the General Assembly, Fifty-second Session, Supplement
No. 7 (A/52/7/Rev.1).



A/53/418

16

Annex I
Support account for peacekeeping operations

Corrections to tables in the report of the Secretary-General (A/52/837)

Table Description Correction(s) to be made

Annex I 3. Office of the Under-Secretary- One P-2 post (RB) under 1997–1998 should be deleted.
General Total RB posts should be 2 (1 USG and 1 GS (OL)). The

column “Total” for the table should be adjusted
accordingly.

5. Policy and Analysis Unit One P-2 post (RB) under 1997–1998 should be added.
The P-4 support account post under 1997–1998 should
read P-5. The column “Total” for the table should be
adjusted accordingly.

15. Office of the Assistant Secretary- One P-5 and one P-4 and 1 GS (OL) support account
General posts have not been included under 1997–1998. The

number of gratis military officers should read 4 P-4 and 2
P-3. The column “Total” for the table should be adjusted
accordingly.

25. Office of the Director, Field One P-3 post (RB) under 1997–1998 should be added.
Administration and Logistics Total number of RB posts should read 4. The column
Division “Total” for the table should be adjusted accordingly.

26. Finance Management and One P-3 post (RB) under 1997–1998 should be deleted.
Support Services Text is missing in paragraph 93: one P-4 and one P-3 post

are requested for the Office of Service Chief, FMSS,
through conversion of 2 gratis military officer posts (1 P-
4 and 1 P-3). The column “Total” for the table should be
adjusted accordingly.

31. Financial Support Section, One P-3 post (RB) under 1997–1998 should be deleted.
FMSS The column “Total” for the table should be adjusted

accordingly.
33. Asia and Middle East Section, One P-3 post (RB) under 1997–1998 should be deleted.

FMSS The column “Total” for the table should be adjusted
accordingly.

41. Medical Support Unit The table should be deleted. Text in paragraphs 142 and
143 should precede table 40.

45. Staffing Support Section One P-5 gratis military officer post should be deleted.
The total number of gratis military officers under
1997–1998 should read 1. The column “Total” for the
table should be adjusted accordingly.

Annex II 2. Overall staffing of units involved The column “Other” for 1997–1998 should read: 1 D-1,
in backstopping of peacekeeping 7 P-5, 9 P-4, 11 P-3, 6 P-2/1, 34 subtotal, 13 GS/PL, 81
operations GS/OL, 4 Trades and Crafts, 98 subtotal and 132 total.

The column “Other” for 1998–1999 should read: 1 D-1,
7 P-5, 9 P-4, 11 P-3, 7 P-2/1, 35 subtotal, 13 GS/PL, 81
GS/OL, 4 Trades and Crafts, 98 subtotal and 133 total.
The column “Total” for the table should be adjusted
accordingly.



A/53/418

17

Annex II
Support account vacancies as of 14 September 1998

Organizational unit Level Title

1 Department of Peacekeeping Operations
Mine Action Service P-5 Programme Officer
Engineering Section P-5 Senior Engineer
Office of the Under-Secretary-General P-5 Chief, Policy Analysis Unit

Asia and Middle East Division P-4 First Officer
Africa Division P-4 Political Affairs Officer
Mission Planning Service P-4 Planning Officer
Mine Action Service P-4 Programme Officer
Executive Office P-4 Personnel Officer
Lessons Learned Unit P-4 Coordination Officer
Logistics and Communication Service P-4 First Officer

Logistics and Communication Service P-3 Logistics Officer
Electronic Data-Processing Unit P-3 Computer Operations Officer
Air safety Unit P-3 Air Safety Officer
Liquidation Unit P-3 Finance Officer
Surface transport Unit P-3 Transport Officer

2 Information Technology Services Division P-2 Computer Operations Officer

3 Office of Human Resources Management P-4 Human Resources Officer

4 Peacekeeping Financing Division D-1 Deputy Director
P-3 Finance Officer

5 Procurement Division P-4 Procurement Officer
P-3 Procurement Officer

6 Office of Internal Oversight Services P-3 Auditor
P-4 Auditor



A/53/418

18

Annex III
Department of Peacekeeping Operations
Rapidly Deployable Mission Headquarters
Staffing Table

Title/function Rank level/equivalent Number
United Nations

1. Implementation Team
Chief of Staff Colonel P-5 1
Military Information Officer Lt. Colonel P-4 1
Operations Officer Lt. Colonel P-4 1
Engineering Officer Lt. Colonel P-4 1
Logistics Officer Lt. Colonel P-4 1
Humanitarian Affairs Officer Civilian P-4 1
Civilian Police Civilian P-4 1
Operations Staff Officer Major P-3 1

Subtotal 8

2. Secretariat Staff
Administration:
Chief Administrative Officer D-1 1
Chief Administrative Support Services P-5 1
Personnel Officer P-4 1
Finance Officer P-4 1
Finance Officer P-3 1
Finance Officer P-2 1
Procurement Officer P-4 1
Contracts Management Officer P-3 1
Chief Integrated Support Services P-5 1
Transport Officer P-4 1
Electronics Services Section P-3 1
Engineering Officers P-4 1
Engineering Officers P-3 1
Property Control and Inventory Officer P-3 2
Movement Control Officer P-4 1

Military:
Communications P-4 1
Medical P-4 1
Demining P-5 1
Training P-4 1



A/53/418

Title/function Rank level/equivalent Number
United Nations

19

Civil Affairs:
Chief P-5 1
Public Information/Relations P-3 1
Public Affairs P-3 2
Humanitarian Affairs P-3 1
Situation Centre P-3 1
Political Adviser P-4 1
Legal Adviser P-4 1
Civilian Security Coordinator P-3 1

Subtotal 29

3. Representatives made available by Governments
Administration:
Chief Integrated Support Services 1
Movement Control 2
Transport 1
Engineering 1
Supply 2
Electronic Services Section 2
Administrative Support Services 2

Military:
Intelligence Major P-3 1
Personnel Lt. Colonel P-4 1
Supply Lt. Colonel P-4 1
Communications Major P-3 1
Logistics Major P-3 1
Movement Control Lt. Colonel P-4 1
Movement Control Major P-3 1
Air Control Major P-3 3

Civil Affairs:
Public Information/Relations P-3 1
Situation Centre P-3 1
Civilian/Military Liaison Officer P-4 1

Subtotal 24

Total, Rapidly Deployable Mission Headquarters 61



A/53/418

20

Annex IV
Proposed posts to be converted from gratis

Functional title Grade  military off icers Remarks
Posts which require

Office of the Under-Secretary-General
Military Advisers Office
1. Staff Officer, Military Personnel P-4 X Classified P-3
2. Military Assistant to the Military Adviser P-4 X
3. Military Affairs and Projects Officer P-3 X No longer required
4. Military Information Systems Officer P-3 X No longer required
5. Administrative Assistant GS-OL
6. Administrative Assistant GS-OL
7. Administrative Assistant GS-OL

8. Administrative Assistant GS-OL

Executive Office

9. Administrative Officer P-3 Classified P-2
10. Administrative Assistant GS-OL
11. Administrative Assistant GS-OL

Office of Operations
Asia and Middle East Division
12. Military Mission Officer P-4 X
Europe and Latin America Division
13. Military Mission Officer P-4 X
Situation Centre
14. Head of Information and Research Unit P-4 X
15. Information and Research Officer P-3 X
16. Information and Research Officer P-3 X
17. Information and Research Officer P-3 X
18. Duty Room Deputy Head P-4
19. Duty Room Officer P-3
20. Duty Room Officer P-3
21. Duty Room Officer P-3
22. Duty Room Officer P-3 X
23. Duty Room Officer P-3 X
24. Duty Room Clerk GS-OL X
25. Chief Clerk GS-OL
Planning Division
Civilian Police Unit
26. Desk Officer P-4 X
27. Desk Officer P-4 X
28. Desk Officer P-4 X
29. Planning Officer P-3 X
Mission Planning Service
30. Chief, Mission Planning Service P-5 X



A/53/418

Functional title Grade  military off icers Remarks
Posts which require

21

Mission Development Unit
31. Planning Officer P-4 X
32. Planning Officer P-4 X
33. Planning Officer P-4 X
34. Planning Officer P-4 X
35. Planning Officer P-4 X
36. Planning Officer P-4 X
37. Planning Officer P-4 X
38. Planning Officer P-4 X
Stand-by Arrangements Unit
39. Planning Officer P-4 X
40. Planning Officer P-4 X
41. Planning Officer P-4 X
42. Administrative Assistant GS-OL X
Training Unit
43. Training Officer (Coordination and Budget) P-4 X
44. Training Officer P-4 X
45. Training Officer (Training Information) P-4 X
46. Training Officer (Research) P-4 X Classified P-3
47. Training Officer P-3 X Classified P-2
48. Editor P-3 Classified P-2
Field Administration and Logistics Division
Field Management and Support Service
Office of the Chief of Service
49. Roving Finance Officer P-4
50. Operational Review Officer P-3
Claims and Information Management Section
Office of the Chief
51. Finance/Administrative Assistant GS-0L
Systems and Data Analysis Unit
52. Electronic Data Processing Analyst P-3
53. Electronic Data Processing Analyst P-3
Contingent-owned Equipment Claims Unit
54. Claims Officer (old contingent-owned equipment team) P-3
55. Claims Officer (old contingent-owned equipment team) P-3
56. Claims Officer (old contingent-owned equipment team) P-3
57. Claims Officer (new contingent-owned equipment team) P-3
58. Claims Officer (new contingent-owned equipment team) P-3
59. Claims Officer (new contingent-owned equipment team) P-3
60. Claim Officer (letters of assist team) P-3
61. Claims Assistant (letters of assist team) GS-PL
62. Claims Assistant (letters of assist team) GS-OL
Death and Disability and Other Claims Unit
63. Claims Officer P-3
Financial Support Section



A/53/418

Functional title Grade  military off icers Remarks
Posts which require

22

Europe and Latin America Unit
64. Finance Assistant GS-PL Classified OL
Africa Unit
65. Finance Assistant GS-PL Classified OL
Logistics and Communications Service
Logistics Operation Section
Logistics Current Operations Unit
66. Logistics Current Operations Officer P-3
67. Logistics Current Operations Officer P-3
68. Logistics Current Operations Officer P-3
69. Logistics Current Operations Officer P-3
70. Mission Liquidation Officer P-3
Future Operations Unit
71. Chief, Future Operations Unit P-4
72. Logistics Future Operations Officer P-3
Engineering Section
Engineering Operations Unit
73. Engineering Operations Officer (Africa) P-3
74. Engineering Operations Officer (Europe and Latin America) P-3
75. Engineering Operations Officer (Asia and the Middle East) P-3
76. Engineering Officer (Asset/materials Management) P-3
Technical Support Unit
77. Civil Engineering/Architect P-4 Classified P-3
78. Electrical Engineer P-3
79. Water and Sanitation Engineer P-3
80. Field/Combat Engineer P-3
Electronic Services Section
Communications Unit
81. Chief, Communications Unit P-4
82. Communications Desk Officer P-3
83. Communications Desk Officer P-3



A/53/418

Functional title Grade  military off icers Remarks
Posts which require

23

Supply Section
Services Unit
84. Supply Officer – Rations Contracts P-4 Classified P-3
85. Supply Officer – Petroleum, Oil and Lubricants P-2
86. Contracts Management Officer P-4
87. Contracts Management Officer P-4
88. Contracts Management Officer P-2
General Supply Unit
89. Supply Officer – General Supply/Letters of Assist P-3
90. Supply Officer – General Supply/Letters of Assist P-3
Medical Support Unit
91. Chief, Medical Support P-5
92. Deputy Chief P-4
93. Medical Support Officer P-3
94. Medical Support Officer P-3
95. Medical Supply Officer P-3
Transport Section
Surface Transport Unit
96. Surface Transport Officer P-3
97. Surface Transport Officer P-3
Air Transport Unit
98. Air Transport Officer P-3
99. Air Transport Officer P-3
Aviation Safety Unit
100. Aviation Safety Officer P-3
Movements Control Unit
101. Movements Officer P-3
102. Movements Officer P-3
103. Movements Officer P-3
104. Movements Officer P-3
Sea Transport Unit
105. Chief, Sea Transport Unit P-4
Personnel Management and Support Service
Staffing Support Section
Staffing Unit
106. Staffing Officer P-3



A/53/418

24

Annex V
Field Administration and Logistics Division

Regular budget Support account Other Gratis personnel Total

Temporary posts

1997– 1998– 1997– 1998– 1997– 1998– 1997– 1998– 1997– 1998–
1998 1999 1998 1999 1998 1999 1998 1999 1998 1999

Professional category and above
Under-Secretary-General — — — — — — — — — —
Assistant Secretary-General — — — — — — — — — —
D-2 1 1 — — — — — — 1 1
D-1 1 1 3 3 — — — — 4 4
P-5 1 1 9 10 — — 2 — 12 11
P-4 3 3 23 35 — — 16 — 42 38
P-3 2 2 18 60 — — 39 — 59 62
P-2/P-1 5 5 3 5 — — 9 — 17 10

Subtotal 13 13 56 113 — — 66 — 135 126

General Service category
GS (Principal level) — — 5 9 — — — — 5 9
GS (Other level) 11 11 93 98 — — 2 — 106 109

Subtotal 11 11 98 107 — — 2 — 111 118

Grand total 24 24 154 220 — — 68 — 246 244


