
98-35390 (E) 161198

United Nations A/53/669

General Assembly Distr.: General13 November 1998
Original: English

Fifty-third session
Agenda item 117
Pattern of conferences

United Nations publications

Report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and
Budgetary Questions

1. The Advisory Committee on Administrative and its resolution 52/214 of 22 December 1997 to postpone its
Budgetary Questions has considered the report of the consideration. The Committee for Programme and
Secretary-General dated 11 August 1997 (A/51/946) in which Coordination also considered the report during the first part
he transmits the report of the Joint Inspection Unit (JIU) of its thirty-eighth session, along with the comments of the
entitled “United Nations publications: enhancing cost- Secretary-General.
effectiveness in implementing legislative mandates”
(JIU/REP/97/2), as well as the note by the Secretary-General
dated 17 November 1997 (A/52/685) containing his
comments on the JIU report. During its consideration of both
reports, the Committee met with the Inspectors, as well as
representatives of the Secretary-General, who provided
additional information and clarification.
2. The Advisory Committee recalls that, in paragraph 83
of its first report on the proposed programme budget for the
biennium 1996–1997, it recommended that JIU be requested1
to conduct a comprehensive survey of the role publications
play in implementing mandates of intergovernmental bodies
and the extent to which recurrent publications could be made
more cost-effective. The request was endorsed by the General
Assembly in its resolution 50/206 C of 23 December 1995
and reiterated in resolution 51/211 B of 18 December 1996.
The Committee notes that the Committee on Conferences
considered several of the recommendations contained in the
JIU report at its substantive session of 1997, regretting the2
absence of the customary comments of the Secretary-General,
which were not available at the time. The Assembly briefly
took up the report during its fifty-second session, deciding in

3

3. Under article 11 of the JIU statute, the Advisory
Committee receives all its reports and makes comments and
observations on them in accordance with its mandate. The
Committee’s comments and observations on the JIU report
and on the Secretary-General’s comments on that report, as
well as its recommendations, are indicated below.
4. The Advisory Committee, first of all, commends JIU for
the quality of its report. The Committee intends to inquire into
the extent of the implementation of its own past
recommendations on the subject, as well as those contained
in the JIU report, as approved by the General Assembly, in
the context of its examination of the proposed programme
budget for the biennium 2000–2001 and future bienniums.

Recommendation 1

5. The Advisory Committee notes that the objective of this
recommendation is similar to those it made in paragraphs
73–83 of its first report on the proposed programme budget
for the biennium 1996–1997. The Committee’s related1
recommendations were endorsed by the General Assembly

ODS JOB NON9835390EODS JOB NO ODS DOC SYMBOL1A/53/669ODS DOC SYMBOL1 ODS DOC SYMBOL2ODS DOC SYMBOL2 



A/53/669

2

in its resolution 50/214 of 23 December 1995. Furthermore, structure by taking into account, inter alia, requirements to
as indicated in the context of the Committee’s first report on streamline and accelerate the publishing process, bringing
the proposed programme budget for the biennium greater integration and coordination. The Committee requests
1998–1999, a number of intergovernmental bodies, the Secretary-General to indicate, in the context of the4
including the regional commissions, have been reviewing proposed programme budget for the biennium 2000–2001,
their publication programmes. Such reviews should continue what measures have been taken or will be taken to implement
to be conducted by the relevant intergovernmental bodies as the recommendation of the Inspectors.
a part of their reviews of the work programme. The
Committee, therefore, is of the opinion that it is not necessary
to include a special item on the agenda of substantive United
Nations legislative bodies on publications, since such a
procedure could result in theoretical discussions out of
context.

6. The Advisory Committee welcomes the findings of the
Inspectors with regard to avoiding duplication of
documentation within the United Nations system. It notes the
reservations voiced by the Secretary-General in paragraph 15
of his comments on the JIU report (A/52/685) with regard to
the question of duplication of publications with organizations
outside the United Nations system. However, the Committee
sees considerable merit in the observations of the Inspectors
contained in paragraph 23 of the JIU report. In that
connection, however, the Inspectors pointed out that there
were often international conferences in which various
organizations outside and inside the United Nations system
prepared a multiplicity of documents on the same subject. The
Committee believes that unnecessary duplication of
documentation could be identified during the preparatory
process for such conferences.

Recommendation 2

7. The Advisory Committee notes the comments of the
Secretary-General contained in paragraphs 17–19 of his
report. The Committee welcomes this recommendation and
was informed that a compendium of new and revised policy
directives on publications was under preparation and would
be issued during the first quarter of 1999.

Recommendation 3

8. The Advisory Committee welcomes the Therefore, the Committee recommends that publications
recommendation of the Joint Inspection Unit. It sees proposed under general mandates be first reviewed by the
considerable merit in reviewing the current administrative, related intergovernmental bodies in the context of their work
managerial and organizational structure of publishing programmes. Such work programmes should be considered
activities in order to introduce necessary reforms at in the manner recommended by the Committee, in particular
Headquarters. These could include the consolidation of a in its first report on the proposed programme budget for the
number of existing functions and units into a more centralized biennium 1996–1997. Publications initiated after the

Recommendation 4

9. The Advisory Committee requests the Secretary-
General to indicate, in the context of the proposed programme
budget for the biennium 2000–2001, what steps have been
taken to strengthen the Publications Board by reinforcing its
mandates, working methods and practices in order to ensure
that it provides effective overall control, oversight and
coordination, in addition to policy guidance, on publishing
activities, as recommended by JIU.

Recommendation 5

10. The Advisory Committee shares the view of the
Secretary-General that mandates are an important basis for
a large number of publications, specifically in the social and
economic sector (A/52/685, para. 30). The Committee further
agrees that departments have to retain some flexibility in their
respective publications programmes. However, the
Committee’s experience indicates that there is merit in the
Inspectors’ recommendation. Publication programmes
planned on the basis of general mandates often tend to be
excessive and overly ambitious. The Inspectors, as well as the
representatives of the Secretary-General, confirmed that there
was often a lack of resources to edit, translate and process a
large number of material produced under general mandates.
Many manuscripts are therefore never published. The
Committee considers this situation to be an example of a
waste of professional resources that would be better applied
to priority programmes.
11. However, the Advisory Committee is of the view that
implementing the recommendation of the Inspectors without
modification would introduce an element of rigidity.

1



A/53/669

3

approval of the proposed programme budget should be Assembly resolution 41/213. In the Committee’s opinion, it
governed by current procedures, including those contained is for the programme-formulating bodies themselves to
in General Assembly resolution 41/213 of 19 December review the frequency and duration of publications under their
1986. authority. Therefore, Secretariat units must draw the attention

Recommendation 6

12. The Secretary-General indicates, in paragraph 33 of his
report, that this recommendation was a reflection of current
procedure. The Advisory Committee, however, recommends
that the present role of the Publications Board in the global
administration of the funds in the external printing account
and the management of publications be expanded to include
oversight over the contents of publications. Such oversight
could be carried out by empowering the Publications Board
and its Working Committee to set overall standards and
guidelines by which author departments would screen their
publication proposals submitted to the Board.

Recommendation 7

13. The Inspectors informed the Advisory Committee that
the objective of this recommendation was to have the full cost
of publications administered under each department,
including the cost of authorship. The Committee does not
consider the implementation of this recommendation to be
practical without the introduction of a cost-accounting system,
which at this stage does not exist. The Committee’s views on
cost accounting for conference services are contained in its
report of 16 October 1998 (A/53/507).

Recommendation 8

14. The Advisory Committee notes that the Secretary-
General indicated in paragraph 36 of his report that this
recommendation reflected current operating procedure.
Accordingly, it should be implemented in the light of the
comments made by the Committee on recommendation 5,
indicated in paragraphs 10 and 11 above.

Recommendation 9

15. The Advisory Committee, as indicated in paragraph 11
above, is of the view that publications authorized by
intergovernmental bodies after the adoption of the proposed
programme budget should be governed by current financial
and budgetary procedures, including those set out in General

of those bodies to publications that are no longer relevant or
are of lower priority. Under the circumstances, there is no
need to adopt a “sunset rule”. Moreover, the objective of
sunset rules can be met by using current procedures whereby
the Secretariat units concerned bring to the attention of
intergovernmental bodies publications that need to be
terminated, issued less frequently or merged with other
publications. In that connection, the Committee recalls the
provisions of the Regulations and Rules Governing
Programme Planning, the Programme Aspects of the Budget,
the Monitoring of Implementation and the Methods of
Evaluation with regard to the identification of marginally5
useful, obsolete or ineffective activities. The Committee
further recalls that many reports and publications have been
terminated by intergovernmental bodies, especially the
regional commissions, in the context of reform and
restructuring, as reflected in the relevant sections of the
proposed programme budget for the biennium 1998–1999.

Recommendation 10

16. The Advisory Committee recommends that the
Secretary-General indicate in the context of his proposed
programme budget for 2000–2001 what action he has taken
or intends to take in order to plan, in a more coordinated and
integrated manner, the entire publishing process, once the
publication or publication programme is approved by the
General Assembly, as recommended by JIU.

Recommendation 11

17. The status of this recommendation should be governed
by the Advisory Committee’s views made with regard to
recommendation 7 above and its report on cost accounting
(A/53/507).

Recommendation 12

18. The Advisory Committee recommends that the
Secretary-General indicate, in the context of his proposed
programme budget for 2000–2001, what action he has taken
or intends to take to implement this recommendation.

Recommendation 13



A/53/669

4

19. The Advisory Committee is of the view that it is not 23. The Advisory Committee recommends, in the context
necessary to wait for the development of a cost-accounting of the proposed programme budget for the coming biennium,
system before implementing this recommendation on the that the Secretary-General submit to the General Assembly,
question of an appropriate mode of printing. Secretariat units through the Committee, his proposals to implement this
should always consider the most cost-effective mode of recommendation. In that regard, the Committee recalls its
publishing and printing. The Committee was informed by the observations and recommendations on the use of income
representative of the Secretary-General that current generated from optical disk system subscriptions, which
procedures for the use of the external printing account were should be applied directly to help meet the cost of maintaining
too rigid, and that such rigidity often prevented the use of and/or expanding the system (A/53/507, para. 13).
external printing funds for internal printing, which had proved
to be more economical for the Organization. The Committee
recommends that the Secretary-General, in the context of his
budget proposals for the biennium 2000–2001, review the
cost-effectiveness of internal and external printing modes,
with a view to determining which would be the most cost-
effective to expand, taking into account local conditions.

Recommendation 14

20. The implementation of this recommendation, related to
the use of advanced technologies for publishing, including
electronic publishing, should be reported by the Secretary-
General in conjunction with the implementation of
recommendation 13.

Recommendation 15

21. On the basis of the comments in paragraphs 66 and 67
of the JIU report, paragraphs 58–61 of the comments of the
Secretary-General and the oral testimony of the Inspectors
and representatives of the Secretary-General at the time of the
hearings by the Advisory Committee, the Committee
recommends the implementation of this recommendation. It
is the view of the Committee that the proposal does not in any
way infringe on the prerogatives of the intergovernmental
bodies.

Recommendations 16 and 17

22. The Committee recommends that the Secretary-General
indicate the effects of implementing these recommendations
in the income sections of the proposed programme budget for
the biennium 2000–2001.

Recommendation 18

Notes

Official Records of the General Assembly, Fiftieth Session,1
Supplement No. 7 and corrigendum (A/50/7 and Corr.1).
To be issued as Official Records of the General Assembly,2
Fifty-second Session, Supplement No. 32 (A/52/32/Rev.1).
Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-third3
Session, Supplement No. 16 (A/53/16), part one.
Ibid., Fifty-second Session, Supplement No. 7 (A/52/7).4
ST/SGB/PPBME Rules/1 (1987), as amended by General5
Assembly resolution 42/215.


