
98-30934 (e) 041198

United Nations A/53/513

General Assembly Distr.: General19 October 1998
Original: English

Fifty-third session
Agenda item 111
Financial reports and audited financial statements,
and reports of the Board of Auditors

Financial reports and audited financial statements, and
reports of the Board of Auditors

Report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative
and Budgetary Questions

1. In accordance with financial regulation 12.11, the 2. The Advisory Committee’s observations and comments
Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary on the report of the Board of Auditors on the United Nations
Questions received the reports of the Board of Auditors on Joint Staff Pension Fund for the biennium 1996–1997 has
the most recent financial statements of the following entities been submitted separately to the General Assembly at its fifty-
to the General Assembly: the United Nations, the third session in a report that includes the Advisory1
International Trade Centre UNCTAD/WTO (ITC), the Committee’s recommendations on the report of the United2
United Nations University (UNU), the United Nations Nations Joint Staff Pension Board (A/53/511).3
Development Programme (UNDP), the United Nations4
Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the United Nations Population5
Fund (UNFPA), the United Nations Relief and Works6
Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East (UNRWA),7
the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), the8
United Nations Habitat and Human Settlements Foundation,9
the Fund of the United Nations International Drug Control
Programme (UNDCP) and the United Nations Office for10
Project Services. In addition, the Advisory Committee had11
before it the Board’s report on United Nations peacekeeping
operations for the period from 1 January 1996 to 30 June
1997 and on the accounts for the year ending 1997 on the12
voluntary funds administered by the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees and on the United Nations13
Institute for Training and Research (UNITAR), as well as14
the report of the Board on the management review of the
secretariat of the International Civil Service Commission
(A/52/811).

15

3. The Advisory Committee had an advance copy of the
concise summary of principal findings, conclusions and
recommendations, classified by audit area, of the Board of
Auditors (A/53/217). The Committee also took up reports of
the Secretary-General on the implementation of the
recommendations of the Board (A/53/335 and Add.1). In
addition, the Committee considered a request by the Board
for the Committee’s concurrence in the allocation of audit
work among its members, with effect from 1 August 1998.
4. The Advisory Committee also considered the report of
the Secretary-General on guidelines for internal control
standards (A/52/867); the Committee’s comments and
observations in this regard are contained in document
A/53/508.
5. During its consideration of those reports the Advisory
Committee met with the Audit Operations Committee of the
Board of Auditors from 21 to 23 September 1998 and with

ODS JOB NON9830934EODS JOB NO ODS DOC SYMBOL1A/53/513ODS DOC SYMBOL1 ODS DOC SYMBOL2ODS DOC SYMBOL2 



A/53/513

2

representatives of the Secretary-General on 28 and 29 Committee had before it, albeit in draft form, reports by the
September 1998. administrations on action taken or proposed for
6. The Advisory Committee discussed the audit
assignments with the Audit Operations Committee. The
request for the Advisory Committee’s concurrence in
accordance with financial regulation 12.12 was dated 24 July
1998 for assignments to be taken up with effect from 1 August
1998. The Advisory Committee requests that its concurrence
be sought early enough to enable it to react prior to the date 12. The Advisory Committee notes that the published report
on which the assignments become effective. of the Board was not ready by the start of the fifty-third
7. The Advisory Committee sought information on the
workload of the Board of Auditors and its effect on resources.
The Committee was informed that the Board’s workload had
increased dramatically in recent years, in particular, as a
result of additional requests from the Advisory Committee and
the Fifth Committee for special or expanded audits.
8. The Advisory Committee was informed that prior to the
biennium 1994–1995 the Board had submitted some 16
reports during each biennium to the General Assembly.
However, since then the workload of the Board had increased
as a result of (a) additional organizations and activities for
which 18 additional reports needed to be provided in each
biennium, bringing the total number of reports to be
submitted to the General Assembly and other bodies to some
34, and (b) requests for special audits from the Committee
and the Assembly; from 1994 to date, some 27 requests for
special audits have been made.
9. The Advisory Committee was informed that it was the
intention of the Board to request additional resources in the
context of the proposed programme budget for the biennium
2000–2001 to support its Audit Operations Committee and
its secretariat. The Committee intends to discuss this issue
with members of the Board during its meeting in New York
in December 1998.
10. The Advisory Committee has commented extensively
on the timing of the submission of reports of the Board and
their review by the Committee (A/51/533, paras. 6–9). The
Committee had requested that the Board and the
Administration review the situation with a view to speeding
up the production and publication of the audit reports and the
audited financial statements. The Committee was informed
by the Audit Operations Committee of the Board that the
financial statements and accounts for the period ending 31
December 1997 had been received by the Board on 16 April
1998.
11. The Advisory Committee notes that some progress has
been made in this regard as compared with its previous
experience (see A/51/533, para. 12). In particular, the

implementation of the recommendations of the Board
(A/53/335 and Add.1). However, there is a need for the
various administrations to improve the quality of the
information in those reports. In particular, they should be
more specific in indicating the concrete actions taken or to
be taken.

regular session of the General Assembly. The Committee
conducted its review of the Board’s reports on the basis of
advance texts in English only. Moreover, the published
financial statements were not available. In the past, the
reports of the Board were the first item to be taken up by the
Fifth Committee during the regular sessions of the Assembly.
It is the view of the Committee that reports of the Board and
the related report of the Committee should be published
before the start of the regular session of the Assembly. The
Committee intends to hold further discussions with the Board
and with representatives of the Secretary-General on this
question.
13. With regard to peacekeeping operations (for which the
financial period is 1 July–30 June), the Advisory Committee
also regrets the delay in the submission of the financial
statements to the Board and as a consequence the report of
the Board to the Committee. The Committee recalls the
observations made in paragraph 17 of its previous report
(A/51//533) regarding the submission of financial statements
and accounts to the Board no later than 30 September (three
months after the end of the financial period), thus allowing
the Board of Auditors to submit its report to the Committee
no later than February of each year, in harmony with the
review of the peacekeeping budgets by the Committee. The
Committee notes that the financial statements for the next
audit were submitted by 30 September 1998. The Committee
requests that efforts be made to ensure that the Board’s report
is submitted to the Committee in February 1999 so as to
enable the Committee to report to the General Assembly in
accordance with the new peacekeeping budgeting cycle
outlined in Assembly resolution 49/233 A of 23 December
1994. Furthermore, in view of the progress that should occur
as a result of installation of Integrated Management
Information System (IMIS), the Secretary-General should
review whether the accounts for the regular budget and
peacekeeping operations could be closed earlier than the
current three months after the end of the financial period.
14. The Advisory Committee once again commends the
Board for the quality of the reports and notes that the Board
has made efforts to make its recommendations less general,



A/53/513

3

thus making it easier to verify more accurately the compliance representatives of the United Nations and its funds and
by the audited administrations. The Committee recommends programmes and, in Geneva and Vienna, with representatives
a further refinement whereby after the list of main of the specialized agencies and the International Atomic
recommendations, the paragraph numbers where the other Energy Agency. The Advisory Committee concluded after
recommendations appear in the main body of the report would those consultations that the inconsistent application of several
be given. articles of the United Nations system accounting standards

Year 2000 compliance issue
15. For each of the organizations audited the Board has
commented on the year 2000 issue, particularly on the need
to take urgent measures to make existing technology systems
year 2000 compliant. With regard to the United Nations, the
Board has recommended, in paragraph 218 of its report on
the United Nations, the actions that need to be taken. Upon1
enquiry, the Audit Operations Committee informed the
Advisory Committee that each administration needed to
decide the lead time required. Furthermore, it stressed that
adequate resources would need to be allocated for this
exercise.
16. The comments of the United Nations administration in
paragraph 32 of the report of the Secretary-General on
implementation of the recommendations of the Board of
Auditors (A/53/335) do not fully address the question of lead
time nor the issue of resources for both Headquarters and
offices away from Headquarters. Upon enquiry, the
representatives of the Secretary-General informed the
Committee that a report identifying the scope of the work to
be carried out was under preparation and would be ready by
early 1999. Accordingly, the Committee recommends that the
United Nations Administration and all the administrations of
the funds and programmes mentioned in paragraph 1 above
report to it by May 1999 on the progress made in this regard.
The United Nations Secretariat is requested to coordinate the
preparation of this report.

Compliance with the United Nations accounting
standards

17. For each administration, the Board has concluded that
the presentation of the financial statements was generally in
compliance with the United Nations accounting standards.
The Advisory Committee notes, however, that differences
exist in the United Nations, its funds and programmes and the
administrations of the specialized agencies on the extent of
compliance with several articles of the United Nations system
accounting standards. These differences in application of the
standards have also given rise to inconsistent audit
observations.
18. The Advisory Committee exchanged views with the
members of the Audit Operations Committee, with

required urgent review. In paragraph 30 of its report on the
audit of UNICEF, the Board and the administration agreed6
that, the Consultative Committee on Administrative Questions
(Financial and Budgetary) (CCAQ (FB)) should consider
whether the United Nations accounting standards needed to
be revised. The Committee understands that steps are under
way in CCAQ (FB) to initiate a review of the standards. The
Committee welcomes this development and recommends that
the matter be accorded priority within the Administrative
Committee on Coordination machinery.

United Nations

19. In its report on the accounts of the United Nations for
the biennium 1996–1997, the Board of Auditors made 341
recommendations and identified 13 main ones. In paragraphs
8–32 of his report on implementation of the recommendations
of the Board of Auditors dated 1 September 1998 (A/53/335),
the Secretary-General described the implementation of the
13 main recommendations contained in paragraph 11 of the
report of the Board of Auditors. Further on, in paragraphs
33–51, the Secretary-General described the implementation
of 16 other recommendations contained in the body of the
Board’s report, namely in paragraphs 23, 48, 50, 57, 63, 69,
82, 87, 89, 96, 98, 123, 144, 172, 214 and 224. In addition,
in paragraphs 4–7, 53 and 54 of his report, the Secretary-
General addressed the implementation of four other
recommendations of the Board, made in paragraph 9 of its
report and in paragraphs 15 and 55 of the annex to the report.
The Advisory Committee recalls that in paragraphs 10–17 of
its previous report (A/51/533), it had commented extensively
on the need for United Nations administrations to have in
place an effective mechanism for dealing with
recommendations of the Board. The Committee notes that, as
indicated in document A/53/335, various officials in the
United Nations have been identified as having responsibility
for implementation of specific recommendations of the Board.

Ex gratia payments

20. Reference is made to the subject of ex gratia payments
in paragraphs 72 and 198–206 of the report of the Board of
Auditors. The Advisory Committee notes that of ex gratia
payments of $787,892.54 made to 15 individuals during the



A/53/513

4

biennium 1996–1997, an amount of $750,663 was paid to the significantly strengthened the transparency, competitiveness
judges of the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda. The and fairness of the procurement system in the United Nations.
appropriateness of that payment had been questioned by the The Advisory Committee will review that report and submit
Committee in paragraph 11 of its report on the Tribunal its recommendations to the Assembly in due course. In the
(A/52/697), in which the Committee had recommended that meantime, the Committee, while making its recommendations
the amounts involved should be recovered. The General in the paragraphs below on some of the findings of the Board
Assembly, in its resolution 52/218 of 22 December 1997, of Auditors with regard to procurement, requests that the
requested the Board to report on those ex gratia payments. Board, during the next audit cycle, evaluate the effectiveness
The Board, after reviewing the payments, concluded that of the measures taken in the reform process by conducting a
payment of the salaries on ex gratia basis was contrary to the horizontal audit of procurement as it did with respect to the
terms contained in the Secretary-General’s letter of 7 March audits for the biennium 1994–1995.
1995 and the letters sent to the judges after their elections.
It is the opinion of the Committee that the United Nations
Administration erred in authorizing the payments. It is for the
General Assembly to take whatever action it deems
appropriate in the light of the findings of the Board and the
previous recommendation of the Committee regarding the
payments.

Integrated Management Information System
21. In paragraph 39 of its report, the Board recommended1
that Release 3 of IMIS be modified to remove the need for
substantial adjustments of accounts receivable and payable
outside IMIS and to ensure that individual debtors and
creditors are properly identified in all cases. The Committee
concurs with the Board’s recommendation and notes that its
implementation will improve the Organization’s ability to
follow up, namely, to collect overdue accounts receivable and
to maintain proper control over accounts payable.

Procurement

22. In its previous report (A/51/533), the Advisory
Committee had expressed the opinion that procurement
reform should be given top priority in the United Nations and
in the funds and programmes. The Committee is aware that
the period covered by the current audit, namely the biennium
1996–1997, has not been affected fully by the procurement
reform measures recently instituted by the Secretary-General
within the United Nations.
23. In its current audit report the Board identified numerous
irregularities regarding procurement of goods and services,
both in the United Nations and in the funds and programmes.
The comments of the Advisory Committee on a few of these
findings of the Board appear in the paragraphs below.
24. In his report on procurement reform dated 18 August
1998 (A/53/271), the Secretary-General stated that he was
pleased to report that measures implemented following the
recommendations and suggestions of the General Assembly,
the Advisory Committee and oversight bodies had

25. In paragraphs 74–82 of its report, the Board commented
on contracts for rehabilitation of the parking garage and for
cleaning and maintenance, electrical maintenance and
purchasing contracts totalling $57.44 million. The Advisory
Committee regards as very serious the irregularities referred
to in the Board’s report in that regard. The Committee notes
that the comments by the Administration in paragraphs 15 and
16 of document A/53/335 deal mainly with the question of
planning for major maintenance and the issue of emergency
activities.
26. With regard to the contracts for cleaning, maintenance
and electrical maintenance, the Advisory Committee is
particularly disturbed by the fact that even the Headquarters
Committee on Contracts was itself concerned at being
subjected to undue pressure as a result of late submission of
the presentation of the two major contracts referred to in
paragraphs 77 (a) and (b) of the Board’s report. The
Committee was not satisfied with additional oral explanations
given by the representatives of the Secretary-General during
hearings on the subject. The Committee therefore
recommends that the Secretary-General supply an additional
written explanation to the Fifth Committee, including an
indication of what action has been taken to ensure that such
irregularities, including those referred to in paragraphs 80 and
81 of the Board’s report, are not repeated.
27. The Advisory Committee endorses the observation of
the Board in paragraph 76 of its report that major
maintenance contracts should not be awarded on an exigency
basis. Extensive comments on the question of procurement
on an exigency basis have been made by the Board as well as
the Committee in previous reports, in particular in connection
with peacekeeping operations.
28. In the report of the Secretary-General on procurement
reform dated 28 April 1998 (A/C.5/52/46), an attempt was
made by the Secretariat to provide a sharper definition of
exigency. It appears to the Advisory Committee that rather
than sharpening the definition with a view to limiting the use
of exigency, the Secretary-General, as indicated in his



A/53/513

5

conclusion in paragraph 8 of the report, actually expanded the full cost of operating them with a view to establishing the
definition. From this it would appear to the Committee that appropriate level of fees that should be charged to users other
more cases might be covered by the new definition of than those from the United Nations system and the proper
exigency than previously. The Committee was informed by administrative and accounting procedure to be employed.
the Audit Operations Committee of the Board that the Board
would review this report of the Secretary-General in
conjunction with the next audit of peacekeeping operations.
29. In paragraph 27 of the report of the Advisory
Committee contained in document A/49/547, the Committee
commented that the practice of using vendors or suppliers
suggested by requisitioners could lead to irregularities in the
procurement process and could raise questions of conflict of
interest. In paragraph 80 of its report for the biennium
1996–1997, the Board reported that this problem persists.
The Committee does not accept the explanation provided by
the Administration in paragraph 81 of the Board’s report and
is not fully convinced by the explanation in paragraph 42 of
document A/53/335. The Committee notes that similar cases
have been reported with respect to the audit of the Economic
Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean. The
Committee considers this to be unacceptable and requests the
administrations to take immediate action against those who
continue to disregard proper procedures.
30. In paragraphs 83–87 of its report, the Board identified
further examples of poor contract management; the
Administration’s response, in paragraph 43 of document
A/53/335, is not adequate. Upon enquiry, the Advisory
Committee was provided with background information that
pointed to a lack of interdepartmental cooperation as the
reason for delay and mismanagement. In paragraph 95 of the
Board’s report, several procurement deficiencies were
identified. The Committee notes the Administration’s
response given in paragraph 45 of document A/53/335.
31. With regard to the management of conference centres
at the Economic Commission for Africa (ECA) and the
Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific,
the Advisory Committee exchanged views with the members
of the Audit Operations Committee and with representatives
of the Secretary-General on the implication of the Board’s
recommendation in paragraph 162 of its report. The Advisory
Committee points out that the two conference centres were
not established for commercial purposes. The question of
whether they are profitable to run should not be a primary
concern. The Committee notes that in its response, in
paragraph 30 of document A/53/335, the Secretariat noted
the recommendation of the Board and stated its intention to
study the feasibility of implementing it. While the Committee
is of the view that the Board’s recommendation should be
implemented, it believes that the goal should not be to
determine the profitability of the centres, but to ascertain the

Human resources management

32. In paragraphs 117 and 118 of its report, the Board
commented on the ratio of support to programme staff at
ECA. The Advisory Committee recommends that the
Secretary-General, in the context of the programme budget
proposals for the biennium 2000–2001, propose measures
to address the problem. The Committee considers that such
a large proportion of support staff inevitably affects the
capacity of ECA to implement its programmes. Accordingly,
staff resources devoted to programme activities should be
increased considerably by lowering the ratio of support staff.

United Nations Compensation Commission
33. The findings of the Board regarding the operation of the
Commission are discussed in paragraphs 163–197 of its
report. The Audit Operations Committee of the Board
informed the Advisory Committee that the comments by the
Board related to claims in categories A–C as indicated in
paragraph 165. The Committee was further informed that the
deadline for submission of claims under those categories had
expired and that all claims submitted had been processed. The
observations of the Board should therefore be taken into
account by the Commission in processing claims under
categories E–F, for which they are equally applicable.
34. The Advisory Committee is of the view that although
the Board made only one recommendation regarding the
Commission, in paragraph 172 of its report, the comments
made by the Board in other paragraphs warrant the full
attention of the Commission. In paragraph 49 of document
A/53/335, the Administration suggested that the
recommendation of the Board be drawn to the attention of the
Governing Council of the Commission. In that connection, the
Committee recommends that the Secretary-General transmit
the full text of the Board’s report, as it appears in paragraphs
163–197, to the Executive Secretary of the Commission, who
should be requested to place the text before the Governing
Council for its attention and action.

United Nations Peacekeeping Operations

35. The Advisory Committee commends the Board on the
quality of its report. However, a thematic presentation would
facilitate a better understanding of the problems encountered



A/53/513

6

and recommendations made during the course of the audit. 39. The Advisory Committee, in paragraph 51 of its report
The Board made a total of 40 recommendations and identified on the report of the Board of Auditors for the biennium
13 main recommendations, which are summarized in 1994–1995 (A/51/533), commented on the fact that the audit
paragraph 10 of its report on United Nations peacekeeping opinion had been qualified owing to doubts about the
operations for the period from 1 January 1996 to 30 June collectability of $175.5 million related to assessed
1997. In paragraphs 4–31 of the report of the Secretary- contributions for which Member States had declared their12
General on implementation of the recommendations of the intention not to pay. The Board once again qualified its
Board (A/52/879), the Secretary-General describes opinion on account of its view on the non-collectability of a
implementing measures in regard to the 13 main portion of assessed contributions ($116.1 million) for the
recommendations contained in paragraph 10 of the Board’s period ending 31 December 1997 (para. 11 (b)), and because
report. The Committee is of the opinion that the of its inability to confirm the validity of adjustments of $130.4
Administration should indicate what action has been taken or million resulting from gaps arising from the conversion of the
needs to be taken with respect to all of the recommendations old accounting system to IMIS (paras. 20–23).
of the Board (see para. 19 above).
36. The Advisory Committee, in paragraphs 49 and 50 of application of article 32 of the United Nations accounting
its previous report (A/51/533), made several comments on standards were included in its previous report (A/51/533) to
the level of peacekeeping funding. As indicated in table 1 of the effect that, in its opinion, assessed contributions are
the financial report of the Secretary-General for the 18-month collectable until the General Assembly decides otherwise
period from 1 January 1996 to 30 June 1997, total (para. 51). The Committee discussed this issue at length with16
expenditure was $1,954.4 million, whereas for 1 January members of the Audit Operations Committee and
1994 to 31 December 1995 it amounted to $5,794.9 million. representatives of the Secretary-General and the specialized
Upon enquiry, the Committee was informed that expenditure agencies. The conclusions of the Committee on the question
for the financial year ending 30 June 1998 (12 months) is of the applicability of accounting standards are summarized
estimated at $879,347,000. It should be borne in mind that in paragraphs 17 and 18 above.
those amounts do not include items funded by the regular
budget.
37. The Advisory Committee notes that the Secretary- explanation was provided in the Administration’s response
General further indicates, in paragraph 8 of the financial (A/52/879), the representatives of the Secretary-General
report, that the reduction did not affect the volume of work informed the Advisory Committee that the conversion from
related to maintaining and updating financial records, as the old accounting system to IMIS had involved some
transactions had to be recorded for the active missions and $43,000 million from all sources of funds – an extremely
missions in the liquidation phase as well as for completed complex operation requiring the matching of old accounts and
missions. The comments of the Committee on this aspect are new accounts under IMIS. Moreover, the missing information
included in its most recent report on the support account for was later provided to the Board along with the reasons for the
peacekeeping operations (A/53/418). omission and action taken so that this would not happen
38. The Advisory Committee also notes that the Secretary-
General once again has drawn the attention of Member States 42. The Board addresses the issue of the value of pending
to the serious cash and liquidity problems under which the arbitration claims against peacekeeping operations in
Secretariat is forced to manage peacekeeping operations. As paragraph 11 (a) of its report and recommends that, these
indicated in paragraph 12 of his financial report, at 30 June being contingent liabilities, they be disclosed in the notes to
1997, unpaid assessed contributions for peacekeeping the financial statements in accordance with paragraph 21 of
operations amounted to $2,180.7 million, compared to the United Nations accounting standards. The related
$2,074.0 million at 30 June 1996. Moreover, in paragraph comments of the Administration are contained in paragraph
11, the Secretary-General states that the failure of many 5 of the report of the Secretary-General (A/52/879).
Member States to pay their assessed contributions in full and However, after exchanging views with representatives of the
on time for peacekeeping operations, as well as for the regular Secretary-General, the Committee does not share the view of
budget and the international tribunals, has produced recurring the Administration that complying with the Board’s
cash crises and increased the inability of the Organization to recommendation “could send the wrong signal to the parties
pay its obligations to Member States and to others. involved”. The Committee is of the opinion that a statement

40. The views of the Advisory Committee regarding the

41. Regarding the $130.4 million the validity of which the
Board could not confirm at the time and for which no

again.

of what parties have claimed does not in itself create an



A/53/513

7

obligation on the part of the Organization to pay the full value paragraph 54 of its previous report (A/51/533). Moreover,
of what has been claimed. The Committee is of the view that the Committee did not receive an explanation from the
the Board’s recommendation should be fully implemented. Administration for $12.4 million obligated at the time of the
43. The Board of Auditors refers to the issue of gratis
personnel in paragraphs 89–109 of its report, and the related 47. In view of the foregoing, and taking into account
recommendation is contained in paragraph 110. The views comments made by the Advisory Committee and the Board
of the Advisory Committee on this matter have been of Auditors, in previous as well as current reports, the
submitted in its reports on the subject, in particular in Committee recommends that the Secretary-General report to
documents A/51/813 and A/52/890. The Secretary-General, it by February 1999 on the results of his review in order to
in his report of 10 July 1998 (A/C.5/52/54/Rev.1), indicated finally clear all outstanding issues concerning this matter.
his intention to phase out gratis personnel by 28 February
1999. Future recourse to gratis personnel would therefore be
covered by the provisions contained in General Assembly
resolution 51/243 of 15 September 1997. The
recommendation made by the Board in paragraph 110 of its
report has therefore been superseded by events.
44. In its previous report, the Advisory Committee made
extensive comments on the Board’s findings for the biennium
1994–1995 on procurement, the management of letters of
assist and contract administration and the management of
logistical contracts, particularly in the United Nations
Operation in Somalia (UNOSOM) and the United Nations
Assistance Mission for Rwanda (UNAMIR) (A/51/533,
paras. 52–56). Moreover, in paragraph 54 of that report, the
Committee, in accordance with financial regulation 12.7,
requested the Board to conduct a follow-up audit of its finding
on letters of assist in conjunction with its next audit.
45. Although some progress has been made to improve the
management of letters of assist, as indicated in paragraph 68
of the report of the Board of Auditors, the Advisory
Committee notes that many of the other deficiencies
previously identified still persist (see paras. 68–87). As
mentioned in paragraphs 24 and 28 above, the Secretary-
General has issued a report on progress made in the
implementation of procurement reform (A/53/271) and
another including discussion of the definition of exigency
(A/C.5/52/46). The Committee, in reviewing the two reports,
will take into account the findings of the Board of Auditors
contained in its report.
46. The Advisory Committee, however, is seriously
concerned with the comments made by the Board, in
paragraphs 84–87 of its report, regarding the results of the
expanded audit requested by the Committee. The Board
reports that it was unable to confirm all payments, which,
according to the Administration amounted to $100.9 million
for the period from 1 April 1994 to 31 May 1996. The
Committee referred to total payments of $184.8 million to the
same contractor for various periods in UNOSOM, UNAMIR
and the United Nations Mission in Haiti, as indicated in

audit, although the related contracts had been amended.

International Trade Centre

48. The Advisory Committee exchanged views with the
Audit Operations Committee on the new relationship between
the United Nations and the World Trade Organization with
respect to ITC and any possible implications for the audit
process. The Committee was informed that there had been no
change. The Board’s mandate is to report to the General
Assembly on the financial statements and accounts of ITC.
The ITC currency of account will continue to be the United
States dollar, and audits will continue to be conducted on a
biennial basis. However, ITC intends to have an accounting
system capable of producing a set of accounts in both Swiss
francs and United States dollars.
49. The Advisory Committee welcomes the comments made
on publications in paragraphs 56–59 of the report of the
Board of Auditors on the accounts of the International Trade
Centre UNCTAD/WTO for the biennium 1996–1997. The2
Committee trusts that the Board will continue to carry out
similar reviews of other administrations in the future.

United Nations Development Programme

50. The Advisory Committee notes with serious concern
that the Board has once again qualified its opinion on the
financial statements of UNDP for the same reason indicated
for the biennium ending 31 December 1995. As stated in
paragraph 18 of the report of the Board of Auditors on UNDP
for the biennium 1996–1997, this results from the lack of4
audit certificates for the expenditure of $520 million out of
total reported expenditure on nationally executed programmes
of $1,936 million for 1996–1997. This latter amount
represents a 71 per cent increase compared to total
expenditure of $1,135 million incurred during the biennium
1994–1995, for which an amount of $366 million was
reported as lacking audit certificates. In this connection, the
Committee notes that the proportion of national execution
expenditures covered by audit reports increased marginally,



A/53/513

8

from 68 per cent in 1994–1995 to 73 per cent in 1996–1997. to the observation of the Board regarding advances to
Upon enquiry, the Committee was informed by the Audit Governments, contained in paragraphs 54–56 of its report.
Operations Committee that the 5 per cent improvement was The Committee welcomes the action taken by UNDP
due largely to work done by the Board’s own auditors in regarding the revised procedures for national execution issued
tracking down expenditure and obtaining audit reports. in 1998, permitting only field offices to give advances to
51. The Advisory Committee reiterates that the submission
of audit reports by executing and implementing agencies,
whether international, governmental or non-governmental,
is part of the standard for assessing the accountability for the
funds entrusted to such agencies. Moreover, the Committee 54. Paragraph 58 of the report of the Board of Auditors
recalls its extensive comments on this question contained in indicates that the operational reserve was $200 million for
paragraphs 23–28 and 69–73 of its previous report 1997 and that UNDP had utilized the reserve on only one
(A/51/533). It appears to the Committee that little progress occasion in the past three bienniums, in which it utilized $6.6
has been made in this regard. The Committee considers that million in view of delayed receipt of contributions. The
those views still remain valid, and it recommends that the Committee believes that the need to maintain a reserve at this
Administrator of UNDP report to the Executive Board, level should be reviewed.
through the Advisory Committee, on the results of the
measures taken to implement the previous recommendations
and observations of the Committee and the Board of Auditors
with respect to this question. The report should be submitted
to the Committee in conjunction with the budget estimates of
UNDP for the biennium 2000–2001.
52. The Advisory Committee notes that the UNDP though the amount spent may seem relatively small when
administration does not fully agree with the recommendations compared to total expenditure, the comments of the Board
made by the Board in paragraphs 52 and 53 of its report, in raise serious questions as to whether UNDP has obtained
connection with advances to agencies. Regarding the value in exchange for the amount spent. Furthermore, the
recommendation in paragraph 52, the UNDP administration observations made by the Board seem to reveal a pattern of
stated that a reasonable period of cash requirements had been widespread and systematic inaccurate identification of needs,
defined as the current month’s requirements plus one poor project design, development, implementation and
additional month’s needs. Whereas the Board stated that management. As a consequence, unrealistic and somewhat
assuming a monthly forward requirement to be a reasonable inaccurate estimates were made, which were often revised as
funding demand, the overall level of balances was nearly two projects were changed in midstream, suspended or even
and a half times more than the average monthly expenditure abandoned.
over the previous 12-month period (see also A/53/335/Add.1,
sect. C). The UNDP administration, it would seem, does not
address the apparent finding of over-advancement.
Furthermore, in paragraph 53 of its report, the Board
recommended that UNDP examine the scope for reducing the
extent to which agencies are funded in advance, moving,
where possible, to a system of reimbursing actual
expenditure, thereby reducing cash flow risks and improving
financial control. However, in the opinion of the Advisory
Committee, the administration’s comments indicating that the
current method, which dates to the earliest days of UNDP, of
funding agencies on a monthly basis and agencies holding
between one and two months’ cash needs at any moment in
time, is not directly relevant to the observation or
recommendation of the Board.
53. In addition to the above, the Advisory Committee
recommends that the administration pay particular attention

Governments on receipt of completed and signed financial
reports covering the previous quarter. The Committee
commends the Board for its intention to monitor compliance
with this important requirement.

55. The Board comments extensively on UNDP information
systems and the programme of integrated organizational and
managerial change (UNDP 2001) in paragraphs 91–150 of
its report. The Advisory Committee understands that the $100
million spent since 1990 by UNDP on information systems
does not include the staff costs involved. Furthermore, even

56. Paragraphs 108–110 of the Board’s report refer to a
project for an executive information management system,
estimated at $1.6 million in 1997, which was abandoned later
on during the year, and another project on an electronic
document management system, estimated at $1.7 million,
which was put on hold in 1997 pending availability of
resources. Total external costs for another project on financial
information management (paras. 102–104), were estimated
by UNDP in 1997 to be over $10 million for the six-year
period from 1994 to 1999; however, the Board states that it
was unable to establish how much UNDP had spent to date
on the project or what it expected to spend in total.
57. The change management initiative (UNDP 2001),
initially estimated at $4.4 million, has grown to $21.5 million
including $16.5 million for the 1998–1999 biennium (see
para. 133). Yet the Board further indicates, in paragraph 140,



A/53/513

9

that it found that generally, the financial benefits expected of the Board that UNICEF review its policy of classifying as
from the change process had not been identified. No detailed expenditure advances to Governments has so far not been
or aggregate quantification of benefits was included in the implemented, even though it was fully supported by the
change project submissions, the framework document or the Committee and endorsed by the General Assembly in its
implementation plan. On the basis of the comments made by resolution 51/225 of 3 April 1997.
the Board, the Advisory Committee concludes that contract
management for a number of the information systems and the
change management programme was weak and may have led
to more payments than were warranted.
58. In that connection, the Advisory Committee administration submits proposals to it. In the meantime, the
recommends that a special investigation be carried out on the Committee would caution that the present procedure followed
appropriateness of the payments made to contractors for the by UNICEF is contrary to its own financial regulations and
tasks referred to in paragraphs 91–117 and 146–149 of the rules. Furthermore, the procedure inflates programme
Board’s report. The Committee further recommends that the expenditure, giving an inaccurate picture of programme
results of the investigation be submitted by the Administrator delivery. For example, in paragraph 15 of its report, the Board
to the Executive Board, through the Advisory Committee, in points out that the programme expenditure of $1,356.4
the context of the budget estimates for the biennium million in the financial statement for the biennium 1996–1997
2000–2001. included cash assistance of some $100.6 million.
59. The Committee recommends, starting with the next 63. The Advisory Committee is of the opinion that, before
biennial budget, that the Administration provide, preferably UNICEF proposes a change in its financial regulations and
in tabular form, the full costs for each project with a time- rules on this subject, it should learn from the experience of
frame for completion. Information should also be provided other funds and programmes. For example, in the recent
on the number and cost of all contracts – including all staff discussion of the Committee on the Board’s report on
costs irrespective of the source of funding – for systems, voluntary funds administered by the United Nations High
identification of needs and system design, development and Commissioner for Refugees, with representatives of the High
implementation. Commissioner, the Committee was informed that the Office

United Nation’s Children’s Fund

60. As regards cash assistance to Governments, a total of
$111.7 million remained unliquidated at 31 December 1997
compared with $120.7 million at 31 December 1995, as
indicated in paragraph 14 of the report of the Board of
Auditors on UNICEF for the biennium 1996–1997. The5
Advisory Committee recalls its observation in paragraph 88
of its previous report (A/51/533) that among measures to be
taken by the administration would be to provide assistance
to Governments to enhance their capacity to comply with the
financial reporting and audit guidelines of UNICEF. The
Committee notes with regret that not only has progress in
liquidating cash assistance been marginal, but the Board has
found that even liquidation documents have not always met
the required standards (para. 16 of the report of the Board of
Auditors). In its response (A/53/335/Add.1, sect. D, para. 2),
no specific mention is made of strengthening government
capacity in that regard.
61. The treatment of cash advances as expenditure is
commented upon in paragraphs 13 and 15 of the report. The
Advisory Committee regrets to note that the recommendation

62. In paragraph 15 of its report, the Board indicates that
the administration intends to propose a change to the UNICEF
financial regulations and rules on the matter. The Advisory
Committee will provide further comments when the

of the High Commissioner faced a similar situation arising out
of recommendations of the Board on the treatment of
advances to implementing partners. The Committee was
informed that the Office was considering the introduction of
changes that would meet the concerns of the Board.
64. The United Nations accounting standards and
accounting for contributions in kind is commented on in
paragraphs 23–30 of the report of the Board. The comments
of the Advisory Committee are in paragraphs 17 and 18
above.
65. With respect to accountability, in paragraphs 58–62 of
its report the Board comments on cost overruns in
construction project costs; although the approved estimate
was $2.5 million, $7.2 million was invoiced by UNDP. The
Advisory Committee agrees with the Board that the reasons
given by the administration for the increase are unacceptable
(para. 60). The Committee equally finds unacceptable the
refusal to implement a recommendation of the Board
(para. 61) that could have provided greater capacity to
monitor the project.
66. The management of consultants is commented on by the
Board in paragraphs 71–75 of its report and involves a test
sample of 234 special service agreements for consultants and



A/53/513

10

experts. The Advisory Committee notes with serious concern observations regarding the issue of accountability, made in
the Board’s findings, inter alia, about the non-compliance paragraph 29 of its previous report (A/51/533), and the
with the requirement for competitive bidding and in some content of General Assembly resolution 48/218 A of 23
cases not even giving reasons for the waiver of competitive December 1993, in which the Assembly called for personal
bidding, lack of effective internal control, poor management accountability of staff in the performance of their duties.
and non-observance of approved financial limits. Moreover, the Committee has also indicated that where staff
67. The Advisory Committee recalls its comments in its
previous report (A/51/533, para. 12 in general and para. 92
concerning UNICEF). The Committee further notes the action
listed in document A/53/335/Add.1, section D, paragraph 18,
regarding the recommendation of the Board in paragraph 76
of its report. Those actions do not address the question of
accountability of practices reported by the Board.
68. Accordingly, the Advisory Committee recommends that
the matters referred to in the Board’s report (paras. 52–62
and 71–75) be reviewed by the Executive Director of
UNICEF. The Executive Director is requested to report to the
Executive Board through the Committee, in the context of the
2000–2001 budget proposals, on the results of actions she has
taken to address the findings of the Board. The Executive
Director is also requested to report on what action she has
taken to ensure that those responsible are accountable for the 73. The Advisory Committee notes with concern that the
practices revealed in the Board’s report. Board has once again qualified its opinion on the UNFPA
69. As regards cases of fraud and presumptive fraud, the
Advisory Committee notes that out of 157 reported cases in
the current audit cycle, 54 are in UNICEF. This compares
with 7 in the United Nations, 39 in UNDP, 2 in UNFPA, 3
in UNRWA, 2 in UNDCP, 4 relating to United Nations Joint
Staff Pension Fund beneficiaries, 5 in the United Nations
Office for Project Services and 41 in peacekeeping
operations. The Committee notes that for the period ending
31 December 1995, 66 cases were reported in UNICEF.
70. That notwithstanding, the Advisory Committee recalls
its comments in paragraph 90 of its previous report
(A/51/533) on some of the fraud reported in the audit for the
period ending 31 December 1995. The Committee strongly
supports the recommendations of the Board that headquarters
strengthen its monitoring of the operation of internal control
systems in field offices through prompt and effective
investigation of indications of mismanagement (para. 101).

United Nations Population Fund

71. Paragraph 7 of the report of the Board of Auditors on
the accounts of UNFPA for the biennium 1996–1997 makes6
reference to previous recommendations that had not been
implemented by the UNFPA administration. In that
connection the Advisory Committee reiterates the

members continue to ignore the principle of separation of
responsibility in procurement actions, disciplinary action
should be taken against them. The Committee is not fully
satisfied with the administration’s reply, as summarized in the
last sentence of paragraph 7 (b) of the report of the Board of
Auditors or with the actions proposed by the administration
(see A/53/335/Add.1, sect. I).
72. Accordingly, the Advisory Committee recommends that
the Executive Director report to the Executive Board, through
the Advisory Committee, on the personnel actions taken, first,
to ensure compliance with the recommendations of the Board
and, second, to ensure that the irregularities referred to in the
Board’s report do not recur. That report should be presented
in the context of the submission of the 2000–2001 budget
estimates.

financial statements as a result of the lack of receipt of audit
certificates from Governments and non-governmental
executing and implementing agencies for programme
expenditures totalling $83.1 million. The Committee
welcomes the action taken in consultation with the Board to
address this problem. The Committee understands that
primary responsibility has been shifted to the field offices,
which are now required to establish annual audit plans,
including the timing of the receipt of audit reports and a
review of their quality. The Committee recommends that
UNFPA headquarters carefully monitor the implementation
of the new strategy.
74. The Board addresses the disclosure in the financial
statements of voluntary contributions in kind in paragraphs
16 and 17 of its report. The Board recommends that UNFPA
comply with United Nations accounting standards by showing
the value of those contributions in the financial statements.
UNFPA indicates that it has drafted the necessary financial
regulation and rule required to comply with the accounting
standards (A/53/335/Add.1, sect. I). The Advisory Committee
was informed by the Audit Operations Committee, however,
that this was one of the accounting standards causing a
number of difficulties for various organizations in the United
Nations system (see paras. 17 and 18 above). The Committee,
therefore, is of the view that the application of this standard
should be reviewed by the Administrative Committee on
Coordination and, in the meantime, there is no need for



A/53/513

11

UNFPA to promulgate new regulations or rules; the value of 78. In paragraphs 34–51 of the report of the Board of
the contribution in kind referred to by the Board, in paragraph Auditors on UNEP for the biennium 1996–1997, the Board,
16 of its report, could be shown in a note to the financial pursuant to a request by the Advisory Committee, commented
statements, as proposed by the Board. and made recommendations on the Mercure satellite
75. Serious irregularities concerning the management of
trust funds are reported in paragraph 18 of the report. The
Committee requests that effective measures be taken by the 79. The Advisory Committee fully shares the views of the
administration to prevent recurrence of those instances of Board concerning the Mercure communications system. The
mismanagement. Board has confirmed the Committee’s doubts and concerns
76. Paragraph 25 of the report of the Board of Auditors
indicates outstanding travel advances amounting to $178,000
for staff and $146,400 for consultants, at 31 December 1997
– an increase of 50 and 60 per cent respectively over the
previous biennium. The Advisory Committee considers as
unacceptable the comments made by the administration in its
response (A/53/335/Add.1, sect. I), and sees no need for
discussions or issuance of a new circular. The Committee
believes instead that the Board’s recommendation, contained
in paragraph 26 of its report, should be implemented
immediately and that, in accordance with UNFPA regulations,
recovery should automatically be made for those amounts that
have not been settled within two weeks after travel. The 80. In the opinion of the Advisory Committee, the
Committee also recommends that the Executive Director experience with this system so far indicates what can go
report to the Executive Board, through the Committee, on wrong when programme managers ignore existing procedures
action taken in this regard in the context of the submission of and become too eager to start projects financed by voluntary
budget estimates for the biennium 2000–2001, under the funds before all related issues, including future operational
heading “Travel expenditure” (travel on official business and costs, have been considered. Indeed, the Audit Operations
consultants). Committee informed the Committee that the viability of the
77. Cash advances to Governments and to non-
governmental organizations is analysed by the Board in
paragraphs 28–36 of its report. The level of outstanding
advances and advances in excess of the required three
months’ expenditure is evidence of poor cash management 81. The Advisory Committee therefore considers it
and expenditure monitoring. The Board has made specific important for the United Nations Secretariat and UNEP to
recommendations, in paragraph 36, to address those implement the recommendation of the Board in paragraph 42
problems. The Advisory Committee does not consider as as a matter of priority. In that connection, the Committee
adequate the follow-up action by the administration as notes the comments of the UNEP administration that the
summarized in document A/53/335/Add.1, section I. For Mercure system can be considered fully operational only from
example, the mere mention that the UNFPA Finance Manual 21 April 1998, when agreement on the use of the system at
has strict requirements regarding conditions for controlling the Gigiri headquarters was reached with the host
and paying advances is not in itself a follow-up action. The Government. However, the other comments in the submission
Board’s observations raise doubt about the extent to which by UNEP do not support this statement. The system cannot
these “strict requirements” are being strictly enforced. The be described as fully operational when there are a number of
Committee is therefore of the view that the Board’s actions awaiting completion. The UNEP administration states
recommendations should be fully implemented. that a preliminary cost-benefit analysis will be completed by

United Nations Environment Programme

8

communications system and on the management of trust
funds.

expressed previously about the procedure followed in
approving the system, its compatibility with the United
Nations network, its maintenance cost, the cost-effectiveness
of the system and its future viability (see
UNEP/GCSS.V/INF/3; UNEP/GC.19/L.1, annex, paras.
17–21; and A/52/7, chap. II, part IV, para. IV.52). In the
opinion of the Committee, the provisions of financial
regulation 7.2 were not fully complied with. The Committee
is particularly troubled by the comments of the Board in
paragraph 37 of its report and by the fact that, as indicated in
paragraph 39, UNEP has so far not benefited from the project
even two years after the expected completion of the project.

system would be seriously in doubt unless it was integrated
into the United Nations network. The Committee notes the
response of the administration, in paragraph 41 of the Board’s
report, that work on such integration was under way.

26 October 1998, and a more comprehensive review will be
possible by April 1999 for submission to the Governing
Council of UNEP.



A/53/513

12

82. The Advisory Committee considers the above timetable priority to addressing those deficiencies by implementing the
as a piecemeal approach to the implementation of the recommendations referred to in paragraphs 33–41 of the
recommendation of the Board. Secondly, henceforth, the Board’s report. In particular, the Committee recommends that
management of the system should avoid the mistakes that have the Centre consider using appropriate computer software to
been made in the past. The Committee recommends that the support its programme operations, taking advantage of the
United Nations Secretariat be fully involved and take the lead experience of other United Nations agencies.
in implementing the recommendations of the Board and that
the results of the review be submitted to the General
Assembly at its fifty-fourth session through the Committee.
The Secretariat and UNEP would accordingly have ample
time to review the system in all its aspects, including
reporting on the extent of its integration into the United
Nations network.
83. The Advisory Committee welcomes the Board’s production costs and other expenses in order to control costs
findings and recommendations on the management of trust and to help in the pricing of publications. The Committee is
funds. The Committee notes that the administration does not of the opinion that this recommendation should be
agree with the Board’s recommendation in paragraph 51 of implemented in full.
its report. The Committee is of the view that the Board’s
recommendation should be implemented unless the
administration can prove that the inclusion of outputs in the
project management report sheet would duplicate similar
outputs for the same project as reported in the tools specified
in the UNEP Manual on Design, Approval and Evaluation
(namely, project progress reports, terminal reports and self-
evaluation fact sheet).

United Nations Habitat and Human
Settlements Foundation

84. The Advisory Committee finds unacceptable the reasons
provided by the administration of the Foundation, summarized
in paragraph 52 of the report of the Board of Auditors on the
Foundation for the biennium 1996–1997, in connection with9
the non-submission of a public relations contract worth
$65,000 to the local Committee on Contracts for Habitat II.
The Committee believes that this matter should be further
investigated. Moreover, the exceptional circumstances
leading to the approval of the contract without the required
submission to a local committee established for that specific
purpose must be explained.
85. The Committee welcomes the improvement made with
regard to the recruitment and management of consultants
noted by the Board in paragraph 43 of its report. However,
no improvement has taken place to remove deficiencies
identified by the Board, since its 1990–1991 audit, on the
important issue of project management. Those deficiencies
are a potential for loss and waste of the scarce resources of
the United Nations Centre for Human Settlements (Habitat).
The Committee recommends that the administration give

86. The Advisory Committee is also of the view that, in
initiating collaboration with the United Nations Office at
Nairobi and UNEP for joint sales policies (A/53/335/Add.1,
sect. J), the administration has not responded in an adequate
manner to the recommendation made by the Board in
paragraph 49 of its report. What the Board recommends is
that steps be taken to generate information about the actual

Voluntary funds administered by the
United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees

87. On the subject of biennial auditing, the Advisory
Committee notes the comments of the Board in paragraph 18
of its report on voluntary funds administered by UNHCR for
1997, and regrets the delay in the consultations between the13
Board and the Office of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). The Committee
discussed the question with the Audit Operations Committee
and also with representatives of the High Commissioner. The
Committee raised a number of questions on the observations
made by the UNHCR administration as contained in
paragraphs 30–33 of document A/53/335/Add.1, section G.
The Committee was not persuaded by the arguments put
forward by the administration. The Committee sees no reason
why a biennial certification of the financial statements would
be of less value to donors (see A/53/335/Add.1, sect. G, para.
32), since that procedure is followed for the other major funds
and programmes to which the same donors make voluntary
contributions. Furthermore, a biennial audit would give the
Office more time to implement recommendations of the
Board. The procedure should also facilitate the timely
submission of more audit certificates by implementing
partners, thus addressing some of the concerns of the Board
of Auditors (see para. 96 below).
88. Accordingly, the Advisory Committee recommends that
UNHCR operations be audited biennially. The Committee
further recommends that, like the United Nations, UNHCR
provide interim unaudited financial statements every six



A/53/513

13

months. The Committee also recommends that UNHCR and voluntary funds of UNHCR. Therefore, the Committee
the Board discuss the modalities for planning for biennial recommends that the Board’s recommendation be fully
audit. Should this recommendation be accepted by the implemented.
General Assembly, the next audited financial statements
would be submitted to the General Assembly at its fifty-fifth
session to coincide with the biennial audits of the United
Nations and those of other funds and programmes.
89. With regard to income recognition, the Advisory taken so far on this important subject, as briefly recorded in
Committee exchanged views with members of the Audit paragraph 20 of the Board’s report. The Committee
Operations Committee and representatives of the High understands that, for example, for non-governmental
Commissioner on the observations and recommendations organizations acting as implementing partners, a six-month
made by the Board in paragraphs 12–16 of its report. The time period is allowed for the submission of the certificates;
Committee also reviewed the comments of UNHCR in for government implementing partners a three-month time-
document A/53/335/Add.1, section G, paragraphs 1–4, and frame is observed. The Committee understands that extensive
notes that the High Commissioner is seeking guidance from discussion has taken place between UNHCR and
the Advisory Committee and the Executive Committee. The representatives of the Board and that it has been suggested
Advisory Committee had informed the Executive Committee that, for example, for non-governmental organizations, a
that the Advisory Committee would report to the General three-month time-frame be applied.
Assembly and that its recommendations would be available
to the Executive Committee, taking into account any decisions
that may be taken by the General Assembly.
90. In the opinion of the Advisory Committee, the current a range of operational reasons, to request that implementing
classification of UNHCR programmes into general and partner audit certificates be submitted in time for the Board
special categories has led the Board to make the observation of Auditors to be able to review them at the time that it carries
in paragraph 14 of its report. The Committee shares the out the audit of UNHCR for a given year. The Committee also
reservations of the High Commissioner regarding the does not share the view of the administration that given the
applicability of article 35 of the United Nations accounting auditors’ right to access implementing partner accounts, the
standards to the current UNHCR special programmes. The audit certification of UNHCR should not be made contingent
Committee is of the view that income recognition for those on the number of audit certificates available at the time of the
special programmes should be on an accrual basis. However, audit exercise.
article 35 should continue to apply to UNHCR trust funds,
that is, income is recognized when received and commitment
of funds should be based on income received.
91. In its recent report on the revised UNHCR budget for to render an opinion on the financial statements. With respect
1998 and initial estimates for 1999, the Advisory Committee to the reference to the Board’s right to access the accounts of
made detailed recommendations on the reclassification of the implementing partners, the Committee wishes to recall its
UNHCR programmes. If the Executive Committee accepts statement in its previous report (A/51/533, para. 120) that it
them, the implementation of the Committee’s is the basic responsibility of every implementing partner to
recommendations will resolve the issue raised by the Board. have its accounts (relating to UNHCR funds) duly audited and
The Committee will recommend that the High Commissioner to submit audited accounts and audit certificates for scrutiny
avoid classifying UNHCR programmes as special and by UNHCR and the Board.
general. There will be a system of annual and supplementary
programmes, the income for which will be recognized on an
accrual basis.
92. In paragraph 15 of its report, the Board considers that Board in paragraph 19 of its report. According to the Board,
contributions in kind should be recognized as income only as at 31 March 1998, the amounts advanced to implementing
when received. There are no specific comments on this in the partners (other than United Nations agencies) in the years
comments of UNHCR. The Committee notes that the 1995, 1996 and 1997 were $472.7 million, $491.5 million
observation of the Board is in line with the financial rules for and $370.4 million respectively. Audit certificates had been

93. The Committee discussed the question of the timing of
the submission of audit certificates with the Audit Operations
Committee and with representatives of the High
Commissioner. The Committee commends UNHCR for action

94. Contrary to the statement of the administration in
paragraph 35 of document A/53/335/Add.1, section G, the
Advisory Committee does not consider it unreasonable, for

95. It is the opinion of the Advisory Committee that it is
incumbent on all audited administrations to provide the Board
of Auditors with the information it deems appropriate for it

96. The Advisory Committee considers the certification
process to be an important element in the accountability of
implementing partners. It is concerned by the finding of the



A/53/513

14

received as at 31 March 1998 only for $225.1 million (47.6
per cent) for 1995, $23.1 million (4.7 per cent) for 1996 and
none for 1997. Under the circumstances, the Committee
recommends that the Board and UNHCR hold further
consultations in the light of the recommendations made by the
Committee on biennial audits (see para. 87 above).

United Nations Institute for Training and
Research

97. The Advisory Committee recalls its recommendation
on biennial auditing as endorsed by the General Assembly in
its resolution 52/212 of 22 December 1997. The Committee
notes that UNITAR has not commented on this question in
its response to the Board’s recommendations. The Committee
further recommends that, as is done in other biennially audited
administrations, UNITAR produce a set of unaudited interim
financial statements at the end of the first year. In the United
Nations, these are produced every six months. Owing to the
small size of its operation, the Committee does not
recommend that UNITAR produce unaudited interim financial
statements every six months.
98. The Advisory Committee expresses its concern over the
proposal to promote General Service staff to the Professional
category without competitive examination, which is called for
by the General Assembly. In its comment, the UNITAR
administration indicated that it agreed with the
recommendation of the Board that the matter be clarified by
the Office of Legal Affairs. The Committee fully shares the
view of the Board of Auditors as set out in paragraph 33 of
its report on UNITAR for 1997. Furthermore, the14
Committee is of the view that this proposal, if implemented,
would set a bad precedent and would weaken the
implementation of the decisions of the General Assembly on
the matter.

Other United Nations entities

99. The Advisory Committee has no special comments to
make with regard to the audits of UNU, UNRWA, UNDCP
or the United Nations Office for Project Services, nor on the
management review of the secretariat of the International
Civil Service Commission (A/52/811).

Notes

Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-third1
Session, Supplement No. 5 (A/53/5), vol. I, chap. II.

Ibid., vol. III, chap. I.2

Ibid., vol. IV, chap. II.3

Ibid., Supplement No. 5A (A/53/5/Add.1), chap. II.4
Ibid., Supplement No. 5B (A/53/5/Add.2), chap. II.5
Ibid., Supplement No. 5G (A/53/5/Add.7), chap. II.6
Ibid., Supplement No. 5C (A/53/5/Add.3), chap. II.7
Ibid., Supplement No. 5F (A/53/5/Add.6), chap. II.8
Ibid., Supplement No. 5H (A/53/5/Add.8), chap. II.9
Ibid., Supplement No. 5I (A/53/5/Add.9), chap. II.10
Ibid., Supplement No. 5J (A/53/5/Add.10), chap. II.11
Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-second12
Session, Supplement No. 5 (A/52/5), vol. II, chap. II.
Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-third13
Session, Supplement No. 5E (A/53/5/Add.5), chap. I.
Ibid., Supplement No. 5D (A/53/5/Add.4), chap. II.14
Ibid., Supplement No. 9 (A/53/9), chap. III.15
Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-second16
Session, Supplement No. 5 (A/52/5), vol. II, chap. I.


