
98-30739 (E) 161098

United Nations A/53/507

General Assembly Distr.: General16 October 1998
Original: English

Fifty-third session
Agenda item 117
Pattern of conferences

Interpretation and translation issues referred to in section III,
paragraphs 13 to 15, of General Assembly resolution 52/220,
cost-accounting system for conference services and access to
the optical disk system

Report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary
Questions

1. The Advisory Committee on Administrative and innovations. A total of 17 interpreter posts have been
Budgetary Questions has considered the reports of the abolished (three P-2s in New York, six P-2s and three 3 P-3s
Secretary-General on interpretation and translation issues in Geneva and five P-3s in Vienna), as well as 13 translator
referred to in section III, paragraphs 13 to 15, of General posts (two P-2s in New York, four P-3s in Geneva and seven
Assembly resolution 52/220 (A/53/221), a cost-accounting P-3s in Vienna). The Advisory Committee was informed that
system for conference services (A/52/1000 and A/53/257) the P-2 level reductions in New York simply addressed an
and access to the optical disk system (A/52/803). During its anomaly, since interpreters are recruited at the P-3 level, and
consideration of the reports, the Advisory Committee met translators recruited at the P-2 level are promoted after two
with representatives of the Secretary-General, who provided years of satisfactory service. Furthermore, as indicated in
additional information. paragraphs 6 and 7 of the report and after an analysis of

Interpretation and translation issues
referred to in section III, paragraphs 13 to
15, of General Assembly resolution 52/220

2. Paragraphs 2-9 of the report of the Secretary-General
(A/53/221) indicate that 30 posts were abolished in the
context of the programme budget for 1998-1999. This
brought to 86 the total number of posts abolished in the
biennium 1996–1997 and 1998–1999. Those abolished for
1998–1999 occurred mostly in document processing and
support functions, reflecting investment in technological

needs, the reductions in Geneva were carried out to achieve
proportionality of posts among languages, and those in
Vienna took into account a reduction in the workload of the
United Nations Industrial Development Organization as well
as the number of vacancies, some of which had existed since
1986.
3. The Advisory Committee notes, as indicated in
paragraph 9 of the report, that interpretation and translation
capacity was being strengthened during 1998–1999, since the
posts that had remained vacant during 1996–1997 to
implement mandated vacancy rates, including six new
translation posts in New York, have been filled. The
Committee was briefed on some of the technological

ODS JOB NON9830739EODS JOB NO ODS DOC SYMBOL1A/53/507ODS DOC SYMBOL1 ODS DOC SYMBOL2ODS DOC SYMBOL2 



A/53/507

2

innovations introduced in the field of translation, and notes after approval of the budget and the costs of providing
that remote translation has become standard for all meetings services at different locations.
held away from Headquarters, computer-assisted translations
are being tested, and 50 per cent of translated texts are typed
directly into the computer instead of being dictated then
transcribed.
4. Paragraphs 10-16 of the report address the issue of self- development team would be required to implement the
revision. The Advisory Committee notes that the percentage prototype, including staff with database and costing skills and
rate of self-revision, recommended at 45 per cent by the knowledge of conference services or United Nations
Committee in 1980, to ensure a high quality of texts, still budgeting and accounting procedures. Paragraph 32 of the
remains valid. As indicated therein, the average rate at report indicates that the prototype could be limited to one duty
Headquarters, during the period from April 1997 to March station.
1998, was 47.8 per cent, while at Geneva and Vienna they
were 61.8 and 64.4 per cent respectively, with higher rates
during peak workload periods. The Committee also notes that
a number of measures have been or are being implemented,
such as a revision of job descriptions, training of staff, peer
review and spot checks, among others. The Committee
welcomes and encourages these and other measures that may
be taken to ensure a high quality of translation.
5. Furthermore, the Advisory Committee is of the view Management Information System), which, as indicated in
that the Secretary-General should prepare a special report paragraph 17 of the report, “need extensive modification to
analysing such problems as may exist related to career support a meaningful cost-accounting system”. In paragraph
development in language services. The report should take into 39, the report indicates that to proceed further “it will be
account that the numbers and grade levels of staff should be necessary to identify staff with the required knowledge of
commensurate with the needs of the Organization as well as United Nations budgeting and accounting practices and
the fact that requirements differ between languages as well conference-servicing activities to work in this field” and that
as between duty stations. “none of the permanent staff members with the requisite

Cost-accounting for system for conference
services

6. The Committee notes that the report of the Secretary-
General dated 14 August 1998 (A/53/257) reproduces and
expands the background information contained in the
previous report, dated 31 July 1998 (A/52/1000). The report
is presented in accordance with the request made by the
General Assembly in section D of its resolution 52/214 of 22
December 1997 to expedite the development of a cost-
accounting system for conference services in 1998.
7. The objectives and benefits of such a system are
touched upon in paragraphs 21-24 of the report of the
Secretary-General dated 14 August. It is indicated therein that
such a system would produce estimates for the costs of
specific conference service outputs. It would thus help to
determine the actual costs of services provided on a
reimbursable basis, as well as the costs or savings resulting
from the addition or deletion of a certain volume of services

8. The Secretary-General proposes a prototype approach
to developing the cost-accounting system, in which a working
model would be developed in four steps, which are
summarized in paragraphs 27-29 of the report. A

9. The cost of the prototype is estimated at $305,000 for
a six-month time-frame (see para. 36). Moreover, after the
initial three-month period, a progress review would be
conducted to evaluate the feasibility of the system. The
Committee notes that this proposal is a first step and that it
therefore does not address requirements for improving the
existing information systems (the Document Records,
Information and Trading System and the Integrated

qualifications in the Office of Programme Planning, Budget
and Accounts or in the Department of General Assembly
Affairs and Conference Services can be redeployed from their
current duties for this purpose at this time”.
10. While the Advisory Committee supports the principle
of cost accounting as a management tool, in view of the
above, it is of the opinion that the report of the Secretary-
General (A/53/257) does not provide sufficient information
at this point to allow the Committee to recommend the
endorsement of the full-fledged development of a cost-
accounting system. Moreover, the Committee believes that
the purpose and scope of the system needs to be more clearly
defined, a clearer presentation of related costs is required, and
a cost-benefit analysis must be carried out in order to prevent
the development of an elaborate system the costs of which
may end up outweighing the benefits. In the past, the
Committee has cautioned against expensive cost-accounting
systems. The Committee recommends that the Secretary-
General, in the light of experience with the prototype, address
the weaknesses outlined above, refine his proposals and
resubmit them at the earliest opportunity, taking into account



A/53/507

3

such additional policy guidance as the General Assembly may
wish to give at this time.

Access to the optical disk

11. The report of the Secretary-General (A/52/803) was
submitted in accordance with the request contained in General
Assembly resolution 51/211 F of 15 September 1997 and
addresses issues raised by the Advisory Committee in its first
report on the proposed programme budget for the biennium
1998–1999 (A/52/7, chap. II, part VIII, paras.
VIII.110-VIII.113), such as the exploration of the possibility
of generating income through the sale of access to United
Nations databases.
12. The Advisory Committee notes that in addition to the
free-of-charge connection, via the Internet, of all permanent
and observer missions, requests have been received by the
Organization for access to the system from a number of
intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations. The
Secretary-General indicates, in paragraph 7 of his report, that
a sustained addition of users would require additional
investment in order to expand the functional and operational
capacity of the system. The Committee was further informed
that this expansion would also limit the possibility of
congestion and slowdown of a system that is already seven
years old. Providing access on a fee-paying basis should help
to provide funds for the expansion of the capacity of the
system while “maintaining the quality of service and the
priority given by the General Assembly to the users
mentioned in paragraph 1 of resolution 51/211 F”.
13. Paragraph 8 of the report provides a list of the
additional users and proposed discounts to be offered to fee-
paying users. The Advisory Committee was informed, upon
enquiry, that a full-price subscription to the optical disk
system (ODS) is $2,500 per annum. The rules and guidelines
governing such sales as well as the reporting of income
generated are recalled in paragraphs 9 and 10 of the report.
The Committee has no objection to the proposal. It
recommends, however, that a way be found to apply income
generated through ODS subscriptions directly to help meet
the cost of ODS maintenance and/or expansion. The
Committee trusts that quality and priority of service to
Member States will be maintained. The Committee is also of
the view that a system to monitor satisfaction with ODS
should be put in place.


