
United Nations A/56/475

 

General Assembly Distr.: General
16 October 2001

Original: English

01-58300 (E)    171001
*0158300*

Fifty-sixth session
Agenda item 124
Pattern of conferences

Availability of documentation for the proper functioning of
intergovernmental bodies

Submission of documentation consistent with the six-week rule

Implementation of recommendations regarding the
United Nations Chronicle

Re-engineering of the optical disk system

Remote interpretation

Provision of interpretation services to meetings of regional and
other major groupings

Excessive vacancy rates in language services at some duty stations
and issues related to recruitment of language staff

Utilization of the United Nations conference centres in Bangkok
and Addis Ababa

Improved utilization of conference facilities at the United Nations
Office at Nairobi

Report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions

1. The Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions has
considered the reports of the Secretary-General on the availability of documentation
for the proper functioning of intergovernmental bodies (A/56/299), submission of
documentation consistent with the six-week rule (A/56/300), implementation of
recommendations regarding the United Nations Chronicle (A/56/339), re-
engineering of the optical disk system (A/56/120/Rev.1), remote interpretation
(A/56/188), provision of interpretation services to meetings of regional and other



2
A/56/475

major groupings of Member States (A/56/213 and Corr.1), excessive vacancy rates
in language services at some duty stations and issues related to recruitment of
language staff (A/56/277), utilization of the United Nations conference centres in
Bangkok and Addis Ababa (A/56/293) and improved utilization of conference
facilities at the United Nations Office at Nairobi (A/56/133 and Corr.1). During its
consideration of the reports, the Advisory Committee met with representatives of the
Secretary-General, who provided additional information.

2. In its first report on the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2002-
2003 (see A/56/7, chap. II, sect. 2), the Advisory Committee commented in detail on
many of the issues discussed in the above-mentioned reports. Additional specific
comments on a number of the reports are given below.

3. With regard to the reports of the Secretary-General on the availability of
documentation for the proper functioning of intergovernmental bodies
(A/56/299) and submission of documentation consistent with the six-week rule
(A/56/300), the Advisory Committee is of the view that, given the close
relationship of the issues and in the interest of streamlining documentation,
these two reports should have been consolidated into one. In the opinion of the
Committee, the availability of documentation for intergovernmental bodies
cannot be properly considered without also considering compliance with the
six-week rule.

4. The Advisory Committee welcomes the innovation described in paragraph 3 of
document A/56/300, by which the Department of General Assembly Affairs and
Conference Services replaced, at no additional cost, the traditional paper-based
management system for the coordination of the submission of documentation with a
computerized database application. The Committee notes, as indicated in paragraphs
7 and 8 of the same document, that out of a total of 462 pre-session documents, 365,
or 79 per cent, were submitted after the 4 July deadline. The Committee also notes
that only half of those late submissions carried footnotes provided by the author
department, in accordance with section III, paragraph 10, of General Assembly
resolution 55/222 of 23 December 2000, concerning the reasons for late submission.
The Committee encourages further development of this system and urges
author departments to comply with Assembly resolution 55/222.

5. As indicated in paragraphs 4 and 5 of the report of the Secretary-General on
implementation of the recommendations regarding the United Nations Chronicle
(A/56/339), in 1996, owing to the financial crisis of the Organization, the
Department of Public Information decided to suspend publication of the Arabic,
Chinese, Russian and Spanish editions of the Chronicle. In the context of its
consideration of the proposed programme budget for the biennium 1998-1999, the
General Assembly decided that the Chronicle should be produced four times a year
in all the official languages of the United Nations (resolution 52/220 of 22
December 1997, annex II, para. 45).

6. The Advisory Committee notes, as indicated in paragraphs 6 and 7 of the
report, that in compliance with General Assembly resolution 52/220, the Department
of Public Information undertook a project to produce a pilot edition of the United
Nations Chronicle in Arabic, Chinese, Russian and Spanish in order to assess the
costs and feasibility of resuming regular production of those language editions. The
experience of the pilot project showed that a lengthy period of time was required to
carry out, through an external contractor, the typesetting, proofreading and layout of



3
A/56/475

the edition and that consequently the edition would lose its value. The project was
therefore discontinued and the Chronicle continued to be issued in English and
French only. Upon request, the Committee was provided with detailed information
concerning the publishing costs for the Chronicle in the biennium 2000-2001, which
total $180,747.

7. It is not clear to the Advisory Committee how the results of the pilot project
led to the conclusion in paragraph 7 of the report that the production of the
Chronicle in all the official languages would require “a secure financial basis” in
order to ensure “parity in quality and timeliness between all editions”. The
Committee notes, as indicated in paragraph 7, that resource requirements of $1.3
million have been included in the proposed programme budget of the Department
for the biennium 2002-2003 for the publication of the Chronicle four times a year in
all six official languages. Under the circumstances, the Committee recommends
that, on the basis of information from the Secretariat, a critical assessment be
undertaken by the relevant intergovernmental bodies of the utility of the
Chronicle in general, including an analysis of the demand for the Chronicle in
the various languages, the merits of its distribution online and the method of its
publication and printing.

8. The Advisory Committee takes note of the progress made in the re-engineering
of the optical disk system, as described in the report of the Secretary-General
(A/56/120/Rev.1). The new system, which will be fully Web-based, uses industry-
standard software and will be accessible to users anywhere in the world using a
standard Web browser on a personal computer. This contrasts with the old system,
which, for the most part, required the user to have a proprietary client software on
his or her personal computer and direct connectivity between the user’s personal
computer and the system. The old system could also be accessed through the
Internet, but the functionality of the system in that access mode was somewhat
limited in a number of overseas offices.

9. The advantages of the new system include the fact that the system can be
operated and maintained by United Nations staff members, and therefore
improvements and modifications can be done quickly and easily. In addition,
additional data capacity can be obtained simply by adding more disks, and more
users can be accommodated by adding memory chips and processing units. The
Advisory Committee notes that phase 1 of the re-engineering, which involved
migration of the old system to the new platform, was completed in early September
2001. The Committee was informed that phase 2, which entails provision for full
multilingual support function (that is, access and search functions using any of the
six official languages of the United Nations), would be completed at the end of
January 2002.

10. Upon enquiry, the Advisory Committee was informed that, in accordance with
General Assembly resolution 51/211 F of 15 September 1997, access to the optical
disk system is provided free of charge for permanent and observer missions and
other government offices of Member States, with a maximum of 10 access
passwords for each Member State, as well as for United Nations staff. In addition,
the system is available to public users for an annual subscription fee of $2,250 per
user (however, non-profit organizations receive a discount). The Committee was
informed that there were currently approximately 8,000 users registered, of which



4
A/56/475

84 per cent were staff members, 14 per cent Member States and 2 per cent paid
subscribers.

11. The Advisory Committee notes, as indicated in paragraph 27 of the report, that
as of 28 August 2001, the limit on the number of users per Member State had been
increased from 10 to 20 users per Member State. The Committee was informed that
restrictions on the number of users would gradually be reduced, and it was expected
that all restrictions would be removed within a year.

12. The Advisory Committee welcomes the progress made in the re-
engineering of the optical disk system and encourages the Secretariat to
continue to work towards unrestricted and free access to the system for all
accredited non-governmental organizations. In this connection, the Committee
recalls paragraph VII.19 of its first report on the proposed programme budget for the
biennium 2002-2003 (A/56/7). The availability of the system should be
advertised as widely as possible, at United Nations Headquarters and regional
offices, as well as in the United Nations information centres.

13. As regards the report of the Secretary-General on remote interpretation
(A/56/188), the Advisory Committee reiterates its encouragement of the
continued exploration of the feasibility of large-scale remote interpretation,
which in the view of the Committee, is an application with enormous potential
(see A/56/7, para. I.54). From the information provided to it, the Committee
concludes that the technical problems related to remote interpretation are not
insurmountable. The Committee therefore urges the Secretariat to intensify its
efforts to find solutions to those problems, as well as to issues pertaining to the
working conditions of interpreters. The Committee also requests the
Secretariat to submit a progress report on this question to the General
Assembly at its fifty-seventh session, in the context of the report requested in
paragraph 16 below.

14. The Advisory Committee notes from paragraph 12 of the report of the
Secretary-General on excessive vacancy rates in the language services at some duty
stations and issues relating to the recruitment of language staff (A/56/277) that it
had not proved possible to implement the system of non-monetary mobility
incentives for language staff that had been envisaged in response to General
Assembly resolution 53/208 A of 18 December 1998. The reasons for this included
the need for uniform treatment of language and non-language staff, in particular in
the implementation of established rules governing placement and promotion.
However, upon enquiry, the Committee was informed of a number of incentives that
had yielded some success, including (a) transfer with promotion of staff members
who, while fully qualified for promotion, would have had to wait longer for
promotion if they had stayed at their original duty station; (b) one- or two-year
assignments to an overseas duty station with guaranteed reabsorption at the base
duty station; and (c) giving first call on new examination rosters to duty stations
with high vacancy rates.

15. The Advisory Committee expresses concern at the downward trend in the yield
of language examinations in the past few years, which is discussed in paragraphs 20
to 28 of the report. The Committee takes note of the possible reasons for the decline
as put forth in the report. In this connection, the Committee also notes, as indicated
in paragraph 37, that the common examinations introduced in 1999 for the
recruitment of editors, translators and verbatim reporters did not yield good results,



5
A/56/475

and that they have therefore been discontinued in favour of jointly held
examinations for the three functions, which will produce three separate rosters of
successful candidates.

16. The Advisory Committee welcomes the plans outlined in paragraphs 29 to 36
of the report to institute training programmes in the language services to address
recruitment difficulties. For interpretation, this would involve reinstating a training
programme for candidates from competitive interpreter examinations whose overall
scores were lower than the passing score, but high enough to warrant their selection
for a period of intensive in-house training in preparation for the next competitive
examination. The duration of training would normally be three months, with the
possibility of extension for an additional three-month period. The Committee notes,
as indicated in paragraph 34, that the training activities for the current biennium
would be implemented within the approved level of the programme budget for the
biennium 2000-2001. Any additional requirements would be reported in the context
of the second programme budget performance report. Upon enquiry, the Committee
was informed that, for the period from August 2001 to May 2002, the level of
resources required for the training programme would not exceed $250,000. The
Committee recommends approval of the training initiative for interpreters for
an initial period of one year, subject to the submission to the General Assembly
at its fifty-seventh session of information on the results of the training
activities, the continuing need for the programme and related financial
arrangements.

17. The Advisory Committee also welcomes the on-the-job training for translators
that is already in place for promising candidates that have been identified through
the examination for contractual translators. Under this arrangement, candidates who
are not proficient enough to be included in the roster of contractual translators but
who show good potential are recruited as entry-level freelances for short periods,
during which, while doing regular translation work under close supervision, they
undergo intensive on-the-job training, thereby increasing their chances of success in
a forthcoming competitive examination. The Committee notes, as indicated in
paragraph 36 of the report, that this arrangement entails minimal cost, as trainees are
productive during their training period, and that the results have been encouraging.

18. In a related matter, the Advisory Committee calls attention to the need to
ensure cost-effectiveness in arrangements for contractual translation. In this regard,
the Committee requests that information be provided to the Fifth Committee
on comparative costs of commercial translation and current arrangements for
contractual translation at the United Nations. Relevant information should also
be provided concerning the experience of Member States in this field. The
question of assuring quality control must also be addressed.

19. The Advisory Committee recalls its recommendations in paragraphs I.49 and
I.55 of its first report on the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2002-
2003 (A/56/7) concerning remote translation. The Committee reiterates its
recommendation that the Secretary-General consider a system-wide approach to the
most efficient use of remote translation to reinforce capacity, as well as its opinion
that further investments in this technology should be made and that its implications
with respect to staff deployment should be analysed, taking into account the need to
ensure adequate support structure at the duty stations and the capacity to monitor
performance and thereby ensure consistent quality control.


