
United Nations A/56/711

 

General Assembly Distr.: General
14 December 2001

Original: English

01-70086 (E)    201201
*0170086*

Fifty-sixth session
Agenda item 122
Programme budget for the biennium 2000-2001

Construction of additional office facilities at the Economic
Commission for Africa in Addis Ababa

Report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and
Budgetary Questions

1. The Advisory Committee on Administrative and
Budgetary Questions has considered the report of the
Secretary-General on construction of additional office
facilities at the Economic Commission for Africa
(ECA) in Addis Ababa (A/56/672). The report was
submitted to the General Assembly in accordance with
the procedures outlined in the Advisory Committee’s
report on building construction procedures (A/36/643).
A letter dated 13 July 2001 addressed to the Secretary-
General by the Chairman of the Advisory Committee is
annexed to the present report. During its consideration
of the report (A/56/672), the Committee met with
representatives of the Secretary-General, who provided
additional information.

2. The Advisory Committee recalls that, as indicated
in the report of the Secretary-General, in line with the
United Nations common house concept and as a result
of the complex security situation, the regional,
subregional and country offices of the United Nations
specialized agencies, funds and programmes in Addis
Ababa have been gradually relocated to the United
Nations complex. In addition, in the past two to three
years, considerable expansion of the United Nations
humanitarian and development activities in the region
have led to increased demand for office space at ECA
premises. As a result, the Commission is experiencing
a serious shortage of space, which it has attempted to

alleviate temporarily by converting some common
areas (including corridors) and conference-servicing
space to office use.

3. On the basis of a survey of projected needs for
office space undertaken by the Commission in 2000, it
is estimated that it will require office space for an
additional 316 staff (see A/56/672, para. 17). The
Advisory Committee notes that, in addition to the
above, the estimated additional gross space
requirement of 6,770 square metres takes into account
a 20 per cent increase factor for staff over the next 10
to 15 years (ibid., para. 18).

4. As indicated in the report, the current proportion
of usable office space to total available space is 51 per
cent, and it is proposed to maintain this proportion in
the new construction (ibid.). The Advisory Committee
expresses its concern at the low percentage of usable
office space. The Committee therefore requests that,
in the context of the 12-month period foreseen for
the formulation of the comprehensive design plan
and detailed cost plan preparation (ibid., para.
20 (d)), a re-examination be made of the use of the
proposed 6,770 square metres of additional space to
maximize office space and minimize common and
temporary space, taking into account existing
standards (see A/56/672, para. 7).



2
A/56/711

5. The Advisory Committee also requests a re-
examination of the need for swing space,1 given the
expansion factor built into the space requirements in
anticipation of an increase in core functional staff over
the next 10 to 15 years (ibid., paras. 17 and 18), and
given the potential increase in usable office space in
the light of the re-examination of the proportion of
office space to common space recommended in
paragraph 4 above.

6. The Advisory Committee notes the arrangements
for management of the project as described in
paragraph 22 of the report, as well as the related costs,
which are estimated at $508,200 (ibid., para. 26).
Responsibility for management of the project at
Headquarters will be assigned to the Office for Central
Support Services; local management of the project will
be carried out through the establishment of a project
coordination unit, which will operate for the duration
of the project. The Committee requests that a
progress report be submitted to the General
Assembly each year until the project is completed,
which the Secretary-General estimates would be in
2005.

7. On the basis of a survey of the local construction
market, the cost of the project is estimated at
$7,711,800 (ibid., paras. 23 and 24). The Advisory
Committee notes that the balance remaining in the
construction-in-progress account as at 30 June 2000
amounted to $7,702,600. Furthermore, the balance had
increased to $8,253,000 as at 30 June 2001, owing to
credited investment income (ibid., para. 29).

8. Based on previous experience, the Advisory
Committee concludes that a delay in approving the
funds might lead to higher costs in the long run.
The Advisory Committee therefore recommends
that the General Assembly authorize the
construction of a new office building at the United
Nations compound in Addis Ababa, and that it
approve an appropriation in the amount of
$7,711,800 for that purpose, to be funded from
within the available balance of the construction-in-
progress account. However, bearing in mind its
comments and recommendations set out above, the
Committee recommends that the Commission
consider the possibility of leasing any unoccupied
office space to suitable outside commercial
concerns. Further, the Committee trusts that an
agreement with the host Government for tax
exemption with regard to materials for the project

will be concluded as soon as possible, but no later
than the commencement of  construction.

Notes

1 This would provide for office space for the equivalent of
57 staff to ensure uninterrupted operations while office
space alterations and/or major maintenance involving the
temporary relocation of staff are under way (see
A/56/672, para. 17).



3
A/56/711

Annex
Letter dated 13 July 2001 from the Chairman of the Advisory
Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions addressed
to the Secretary-General

The Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions has
considered your note concerning United Nations accommodation at Addis Ababa
(A/CN.1/R.1194). The Committee notes that, in line with the United Nations
common house concept and as the result of the complex security situation, the
regional, subregional, and country offices of the United Nations specialized
agencies, funds and programmes in Addis Ababa have been gradually relocated to
the United Nations complex. In addition, in the last two to three years, considerable
expansion of the United Nations humanitarian and development activities in the
region have led to increased demand for office space at ECA premises. As a result,
the Commission is experiencing a serious shortage of office space, which it has
attempted to alleviate temporarily by converting some common areas (including
corridors) and conference-servicing space to office use. Many of these offices are
sub-standard, without daylight or proper ventilation. In addition, fire safety has been
compromised through the conversion of corridor space to offices.

On the basis of a survey of the projected needs for office space undertaken by
the Commission in 2000, it is estimated that there is a need for additional office
space for 316 staff. Taking into account standard average office space requirements
as detailed in your note, as well as projected increases in the number of core staff
over the next 10 to 15 years, you propose construction of a new four-storey office
building with a total area of 6,770 square metres at a total cost of $7,342,500. The
Advisory Committee notes that calculation of the cost is based on the outcome of a
survey of the local construction market and the construction industry standards for
low, medium and luxury-level construction in Addis Ababa and that the estimated
duration of the project is 41 work-months.

As indicated in paragraphs 26 to 29 of the note, the balance remaining in the
construction-in-progress account upon completion of the projects for construction of
additional conference facilities at Bangkok and Addis Ababa was $7,702,600 as at
30 June 2000. Furthermore, the balance had increased to $8,023,000 as at 31
December 2000 owing to credited investment income. Thus, the new construction
project could be financed in its entirety from within the available balance in the
construction-in-progress account.

The Advisory Committee concurs in the submission to the General Assembly,
in accordance with the procedures outlined in the report of the Committee on
building construction procedures (A/36/643), of the proposal for construction of a
new office building in Addis Ababa of a total area of 6,770 square metres at an
estimated cost of $7,342,500 (at current rates), to be funded from the available
balance of the construction-in-progress account. The Committee requests that, in
your report to the Assembly, you include information on resources for management,
monitoring and oversight of the project. In the opinion of the Committee, the
designation of a special unit solely dedicated to the project would be the preferable
arrangement. The report should include an accurate assessment of construction costs
over the period of construction, taking into account inflation, contingencies and
other cost elements, such as importation of materials and equipment. Furthermore,



4
A/56/711

the agreement of the host Government should be obtained for tax exemption of
materials for the project. After it has considered your report, the Committee will
submit detailed comments and recommendations to the Assembly at its fifty-sixth
session.

(Signed) C. S. M. Mselle
Chairman


