
United Nations A/56/436

 

General Assembly Distr.: General
4 October 2001

Original: English

01-56473 (E)    091001
*0156473*

Fifty-sixth session
Agenda item 120
Financial reports and audited financial statements and
reports of the Board of Auditors

Financial reports and audited financial statements and
reports of the Board of Auditors

Report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and
Budgetary Questions

1. The Advisory Committee on Administrative and
Budgetary Questions has, in accordance with financial
regulation 12.11, considered the report of the Board of
Auditors on the audited financial statements of the
voluntary funds administered by the United Nations
High Commissioner for Refugees for the year ended 31
December 2000 (A/56/5/Add.5). The Committee also
took up the second report of the Secretary-General on
the implementation of the recommendations of the
Board of Auditors on the accounts of the United
Nations (A/56/66) and its funds and programmes
(A/56/66/Add.1) for the biennium ended 31 December
1999. In addition, the Committee had before it the
report of the Board of Auditors on the implementation
of its recommendations relating to the biennium 1998-
1999 (see A/56/132), which was submitted in
accordance with paragraph 5 of General Assembly
resolution 52/212 B.

2. During its consideration of these reports, the
Committee met with the Audit Operations Committee
of the Board of Auditors. In accordance with its
recommendation contained in paragraph 4 of its
previous report (A/55/487), the Committee also met
with a representative of a former Board member to
consider the report prepared by him before the end of
his term.

3. The Committee recalls its previous
recommendation that the operations of the Office of the
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
(UNHCR) be audited biennially, and that UNHCR and
the Board of Auditors discuss the modalities for
planning for biennial audit; the Committee awaits the
outcome of the discussion. In this connection, the
Committee reiterates that a biennial audit would give
UNHCR more time to implement the recommendations
of the Board and would also facilitate the timely
submission of audit certificates by implementing
partners (see A/53/513, paras. 87 and 88).

4. The Committee notes the progress achieved by
UNHCR in reducing by $186.5 million the level of
current and prior year expenditure for which
subproject monitoring reports had not been
received, and trusts that further efforts will be
made by UNHCR with regard to a total of $55.5
million which remains outstanding in advances to
implementing partners, covering the years 1994 to
2000. The Committee also notes that UNHCR has
succeeded in securing independent audit certificates
to cover 79 per cent of expenditures incurred by
implementing partners during 1999, as compared to
47.6 per cent for the year 1995.



2
A/56/436

5. The Committee notes with concern that the
Board of Auditors has nevertheless qualified its
audit opinion on the financial statements of
UNHCR based on a limitation of scope in respect of
a total of $43.5 million of implementing partner
expenditure. This limitation represents:

(a) The sum of $8.5 million of outstanding
advances to implementing partners in respect of 2000,
for which subproject monitoring reports had not been
received as at June 2001;

(b) The sum of $32 million of year 2000
expenditures, for which the Board identified serious
inadequacies in the verification and validation
procedures;

(c) The sum of $3 million, for which one
country denied UNHCR access to the accounting
records of implementing partners.

6. The Committee points out, in this connection,
that the issue of denial of access to the accounting
records of implementing partners, on which the
Committee had commented in previous reports (see,
for example A/53/513, paras. 95 and 96), continues
to be a very serious problem with a potential for
fraud. The problem should be thoroughly examined
by the administration of UNHCR in order to
determine whether the failure to provide access to
accounting records is due to the lack of capacity of
implementing partners or rather reflects the lack of
will to cooperate with UNHCR. Should the latter be
the case, the Committee requests that the issue be
addressed at the highest level of UNHCR
administration and, if necessary, be brought to the
attention of the Secretary-General.

7. The findings of the Board with regard to the
subproject monitoring reports are contained in
paragraphs 22 to 31 of its report (A/56/5/Add.5). The
Board found, for example, that officers responsible for
field monitoring generally provided no evidence of a
regular or systematic check on implementing partner
expenditure. Moreover, the Board found that some
programme or finance officers did not see approval of
expenditure as their responsibility or did not have the
time to carry out inspections. Taking into account the
apparent lack of clear understanding on the part of
some UNHCR staff of their responsibilities, the
Committee expects the administration of UNHCR to
address the issue through increased training of staff

and a more stringent application of accountability
requirements.

8. The Committee notes with concern the
findings of the Board with regard to the quality of
the certificates provided to UNHCR in the year
1999 (see A/56/5/Add.5, paras. 35-37). For example,
the Board examined 91 certificates covering
expenditures of $241 million and found the following
irregularities in respect of certificates covering a total
of $112 million: (a) project auditors had to qualify their
audit opinion in respect of expenditure of $18 million
on the grounds of insufficient evidence; (b) expenditure
totalling $17 million was certified by government
accountants rather than by independent auditors; and
(c) 25 certificates covering $77 million did not clearly
state that funds provided by UNHCR were used in
accordance with agreements. On the basis of these
findings, the Board concluded that limited assurance
could be deduced as to the maintenance of adequate
accounting systems and financial records by
implementing partners in 2000. The Committee
requests, therefore, that the administration of
UNHCR undertake all the necessary measures to
improve performance of those country offices where
the Board found significant gaps in the extent and
quality of audit certificates; the related information
should be provided to the Committee in March
2002.

9. The Board’s findings on the Integrated System
Project of UNHCR are contained in paragraphs 57 to 92
of its report (A/56/5/Add.5). The Committee is concerned
that after some three years and expenditure of $8.7
million against a total budget of $34 million, the Project
remains non-operational. The Committee requests the
administration of UNHCR to take immediate steps to
address the findings by the Board and to report to the
Committee not later than autumn 2002 on actions
taken. The Committee also reiterates its request that
UNHCR present comprehensive data on the
implementation of all information technology projects,
including relevant costs (see A/55/487, para. 41).

10. The Committee notes the Board’s finding that
UNHCR has yet to establish a reliable system for
establishing accurate information on the size and
characteristics of the refugee population.



3
A/56/436

Implementation of the recommendations of the
Board of Auditors

11. The Committee notes that some progress has been
made in implementing the recommendations of the
Board in respect of 15 organizations covered in its
report on the implementation of its recommendations
relating to the biennium 1998-1999: of the 208
recommendations by the Board, 115 recommendations
have been fully implemented, 72 are under
implementation, 1 has not been implemented and in
respect of 5 recommendations the organizations have
not been able to implement the recommendations since
they were overtaken by events. The Committee
welcomes the fact that six entities (the United
Nations, the United Nations University, the United
Nations Children’s Fund, the United Nations
Institute for Training and Research, the United
Nations International Drug Control Programme
and the United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund)
have substantially improved their implementation
rate compared with the biennium 1996-1997 (see
A/56/132, para. 9).

12. The Committee observes that the information
contained in paragraphs 10 to 25 of the Board’s report
(see A/56/132) is also reflected, to a large extent, in the
reports of the Secretary-General on the same subject
(A/56/66 and Add.1). The Committee requests,
therefore, that the Board concentrate, in its reports
on the implementation of its recommendations, on
indicating the extent to which such
recommendations have been implemented and on
their impact. With regard to the Secretary-
General’s reports on the implementation of the
recommendations of the Board, the Committee
recommends that those reports focus less on
describing how the administration intends to
implement the Board’s recommendations and
instead indicate briefly the actions taken and results
achieved.


