
United Nations A/56/684

 

General Assembly Distr.: General
6 December 2001

Original: English

01-68180 (E)    071201
*0168180*

Fifty-sixth session
Agenda item 122
Programme budget for the biennium 2000-2001

Programme budget for the biennium 2000-2001

Integrated Management Information System project

Report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and
Budgetary Questions

1. The Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions has
considered the thirteenth progress report of the Secretary-General on the Integrated
Management Information System (IMIS) (A/56/602). During its consideration of the
report, the Advisory Committee met with representatives of the Secretary-General.

2. The report of the Secretary-General describes the activities relating to the
IMIS operations of the past 12 months, analyses its present technological conditions
and discusses the future developments with the system in place. In order to ensure
the ongoing viability of IMIS and to ensure that it would continue to meet the
requirements of the Organization, the Secretary-General proposes five specific areas
of activity for the modernization of the technical architecture of IMIS. It is proposed
to commence this work in January 2002 and to complete it by May 2003. Additional
resources required for the ongoing costs associated with the maintenance and
technological enhancement of the system would amount to $4,659,000 (see
A/56/602, paras. 59-64). Upon request, the Committee was provided with a detailed
work programme for the proposed technological updates of the system (see the
annex to the present report). The Committee has no objection to the proposal.

3. In addition, as indicated in paragraph 54 and table 1 of document A/56/602,
the amount of $975,000 is requested over the provision of $77.6 million approved
by the General Assembly in its resolution 53/219 of 7 April 1999 for the
development of IMIS. The additional requirements of $975,000 relate to a need for
extensive data clean-up work and verification for implementation of the Payroll
module in offices away from Headquarters, which was not fully anticipated. Thus,
the revised and final total costs for the development and implementation of the IMIS
project would amount to $78,554,600 from its inception in 1989. The main areas
covered by the system include personnel management, post management,
accounting, procurement, travel, payroll and budget execution, in line with the



2
A/56/684

purpose of the system, as approved by the General Assembly in its resolution 43/217
of 21 December 1988, which is to process and report on administrative actions at all
major duty stations (see A/56/602, para. 1).

4. The Advisory Committee notes that the total additional requirements requested
by the Secretary-General, as indicated in paragraphs 2 and 3 above, amount to
$5,634,700. It is proposed to finance these requirements from the current available
investment income reported under the special account for IMIS, which amounts to
$5,956,000 as at 30 June 2001 (see A/56/602, paras. 64-66).

5. The main IMIS activities since the last progress report are discussed in detail
in chapter II, sections B to F, and summarized in paragraphs 37-40 of document
A/56/602. These include activities to assist offices away from Headquarters in
implementation of the system locally and related issues of training and support. The
system is currently installed either totally or partially at Headquarters and major
duty stations (namely Addis Ababa, Bangkok, Beirut, Geneva, Nairobi, Santiago and
Vienna). It is also being used by the United Nations Development Programme
(UNDP), the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) and the United Nations
Office for Project Services (UNOPS), and the human resources module is used by
the secretariat of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the
International Labour Organization (ILO), the International Trade Centre
UNCTAD/WTO (ITC) and the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) (see
A/56/602, para. 2).

6. The Advisory Committee notes from the summary of the report that,
“following the completion of the development phase of IMIS as initially planned
and the implementation of the payroll module at Headquarters in September 2000,
the payroll system has been successfully implemented in the Economic and Social
Commission for Western Asia (ESCWA) and in the United Nations Office at Vienna.
Preparations for its implementation are well advanced in the other offices away from
Headquarters. UNDP and UNICEF are also currently preparing to implement the
payroll functionality. With the implementation of the finance functionality now
complete in all major duty stations, usage of the system has continued to increase”
(see also A/56/602, paras. 22-28). The Committee was informed that, at present,
there are over 4,500 registered users (see also A/56/602, annex II).

7. The Advisory Committee recalls that the Secretary-General intended to report
on lessons learned in the context of the thirteenth progress report on IMIS (see
A/55/7/Add.8, para. 7). In this connection, the Committee was informed that a final
and comprehensive report on IMIS was to be issued shortly, as an addendum to
document A/56/602, which would include a discussion on lessons learned from the
development and implementation of the system. The Advisory Committee requests
that, after that final report, information on maintenance and future
enhancements to the system be provided in the context of the proposed
programme budget, under the corresponding section of the budget, including
information on further progress made with regard to integration of IMIS with
other programme budgeting and reporting systems being developed by the
Secretariat.

8. The Advisory Committee notes from paragraph 36 of document A/56/602 that,
during the reporting period, within the framework of the Task Force on Common
Services, discussions continued on the establishment of IMIS as a common service
for the United Nations funds and programmes. Maintenance services for IMIS



3
A/56/684

applications installed or to be installed in the future as well as technical help desks
and consulting services for United Nations funds and programmes will continue to
be provided on a cost-recovery basis. The Advisory Committee is aware, from the
exchange of information with representatives of funds and programmes during its
review of their administrative support budgets, of shortcomings and technological
obsolescence in IMIS that have rendered the system unattractive for programme
applications by funds and programmes. As indicated in paragraph 12 below, the
Committee requests that this issue be addressed as a matter of priority.

9. The Advisory Committee notes the information provided in paragraphs 41 to
47 of document A/56/602 on the implementation of IMIS in peacekeeping
operations and the International Tribunals. With regard to peacekeeping operations,
the first phase of the analysis has been focused on the technical platform and remote
accessibility. A series of tests of remote access have been carried out. It is apparent
from this phase of analysis that the telecommunications infrastructure would require
enhancing in most locations in order to provide satisfactory performance of the
remote access to IMIS by the peacekeeping missions (see A/56/602, para. 44).

10. On the basis of the results of tests of remote access, the Advisory Committee
notes that the Secretariat proposes to proceed with the implementation of IMIS in
peacekeeping operations on a phased approach basis. The first phase of the
implementation is targeted for completion in early 2002 and will consist of a link
between IMIS at Headquarters and three peacekeeping field locations (namely the
United Nations Truce Supervision Organization (UNTSO), the United Nations
Peacekeeping Force in Cyprus (UNFICYP) and the United Nations Logistics Base at
Brindisi). For these missions, the communications infrastructure required is already
in place and is considered sufficiently reliable to support remote access (see
A/56/602, para. 45).

11. With regard to the International Tribunals, the Advisory Committee notes that,
with the full implementation of the payroll module, the payroll for the international
staff of the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda is now operated through
IMIS and that installation of a local IMIS system at that Tribunal is not possible
owing to technical difficulties. As regards the International Tribunal for the
Former Yugoslavia, the Committee notes with concern that there has been no
identifiable progress on the issue during 2001.

12. The Advisory Committee regrets the limited progress achieved so far in
the implementation of IMIS in peacekeeping operations and the International
Tribunals. The Committee recommends that the Secretary-General submit a
report on the strategy for deployment of IMIS to peacekeeping operations and
the Tribunals to the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session. The report
should also address the issue of required enhancements to the system to make it
viable for possible programme applications by United Nations funds and
programmes.

13. Furthermore, the Advisory Committee recommends that the General
Assembly approve an additional provision of $5,634,700 under the Integrated
Management Information System Fund to meet the requirements of IMIS
associated with activities detailed in chapter V of the report of the Secretary-
General, to be financed from the investment income reported under the Fund
at 30 June 2001.



4
A/56/684

Annex
Detailed information on the breakdown of resource
requirements and the work programme for projects
A to E, under A/56/602, table 2

A. Re-engineering of the user interface with the ability to deploy the
system on the Web:

(i) General temporary assistance: three staff at the P-4 level, three staff at the P-3
level (84 work-months in total);

(ii) Contractual services: based on a proposal from the software vendor, the project
will require a team of up to 10 contractor staff. Initially, preparatory work will
involve a reduced team of three contractor staff, building up to the full
complement over a period of two to three months. The vendor’s proposal is
based on a detailed review of the IMIS user sessions and of the experience
gained during the Web migration of two user sessions earlier in 2001. Out of
the total 1,086 screens in the system, grouped in 251 categories and user
sessions, it is proposed to re-engineer approximately 60 per cent of the
screens. The remaining 40 per cent of the screens comprising reference table
maintenance, administration, batch function and certain other categories of
screens will be migrated to the Web without re-engineering;

(iii) Work programme: the short-term staff will comprise three IMIS development
teams supplemented by resource persons from the user departments. That staff
will work with the contractors, assisting them with IMIS-specific features of
the software and learning specific Web features of the development. The
resource persons will be focal points to provide requirements for re-
engineering the screens and testing them after migration and re-engineering in
Web format.

B. Re-writing of entitlements/posting applications in modern
programming language:

(i) General temporary assistance: two staff at the P-3 level (28 work-months);

(ii) Contractual services: the services of a contractor are required with respect to
expertise in the area of large administrative systems reprogramming in the
modern languages;

(iii) Work programme: given the specialized nature of the work, a team will be
organized comprising two short-term United Nations staff members with
knowledge of the system and one representative of a contractor who would be
an expert in the chosen programming language and would have knowledge of
the existing language. The current underlying business logic of the
entitlements and posting application will not be changed. Upon completion of
the re-writing, users will carry out regression testing to ensure the correct
functioning of the application in the new language.



5
A/56/684

C. Study of functional and technical needs for consolidation of
the system:

(i) General temporary assistance: one staff at the P-4 level, two staff at the P-3
level (42 work-months in total);

(ii) Contractual services: specialized knowledge of a database consolidation
technology and of available solutions will be required, which the United
Nations does not have at present;

(iii) Work programme: the work programme will include technical and functional
aspects. One United Nations staff member will work primarily with the
contractor on the technical issues to identify and recommend the technical
architecture best adapted to IMIS. The other two short-term staff members will
focus on functional issues, business processes and information flows between
duty stations, procedures and policy matters, and reporting requirements. The
team will also identify changes to the database structure that may be needed to
support modified business processes, information flows, reporting and other
requirements. While the precise extent of those changes cannot be determined
prior to the study, it is expected that those changes could be met within
existing maintenance resources, although the need for further resources cannot
be entirely excluded.

D. Re-engineering of the system for 24 hours a day, 7 days a
week operations:

(i) General temporary assistance: three staff at the P-3 level (42 work-months in
total);

(ii) Work programme: the work in this area concerns those processes that run off-
line in a batch mode. Currently, the database cannot be made available to
online users while those processes are running because of contention when the
actions update the same records or the same database tables which are in use.
These processes must be modified in order to allow concurrent updates by
online actions. The processes concerned are grouped into several categories:
human resources, finance, payroll, time and attendance and interfaces. Each
category must be reviewed and applicable changes made to remove contention
with the online processes. The basic logic of the processes will remain the
same, but with the changes described above and regression testing will need to
be conducted by users.

E. Study on the reporting application update in the context of
deploying the system on the Web:

(i) General temporary assistance: two staff at the P-3 level (28 work-months);

(ii) Work programme: the short-term staff, having experience with reporting
applications for large database systems, will work alongside an IMIS staff
member knowledgeable in the reporting applications. They will research and
identify a front-end reporting tool to replace the existing one that is not
suitable for deployment of the application on the Web. It is expected that work



6
A/56/684

on the re-engineering of the reports adapted to the selected replacement tool
can also be initiated from within these resources. However, the scope of the
total requirements for deploying IMIS on the Web in the context of this project
will be determined upon completion of the study.


