
United Nations A/57/736

 

General Assembly Distr.: General
18 February 2003

Original: English

03-25169 (E)    200203

*0325169*

Fifty-seventh session
Agenda item 123
Administration of justice at the United Nations

Administration of justice in the Secretariat

Report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and
Budgetary Questions

1. The Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions has
considered the report of the Secretary-General on the administration of justice in the
Secretariat (A/56/800). The Committee also had before it the report of the Joint
Inspection Unit on reform of the administration of justice in the United Nations
system: options for higher recourse instances (JIU/REP/2002/5), which was
transmitted by the Secretary-General in document A/57/441, as well as the
comments thereon of the Secretary-General and of the United Nations System Chief
Executives Board for Coordination (A/57/411/Add.1) and of the United Nations
Administrative Tribunal (A/C.5/57/25). During its consideration of the item, the
Committee met at various times with representatives of the Secretary-General and
members of the Administrative Tribunal and the Chief Executives Board.

2. The report of the Secretary-General was submitted pursuant to General
Assembly resolution 55/258 of 14 June 2001, in which the Assembly requested the
Secretary-General to, inter alia, review the role of the Joint Appeals Board and the
difference between the statutes of the United Nations Administrative Tribunal and
the Administrative Tribunal of the International Labour Organization (ILO) with
regard to specific performance of an obligation and compensation limits.

Joint Appeals Board

3. The request for the Secretary-General to review the Joint Appeals Board is
contained in section XI, paragraph 4 of General Assembly resolution 55/258. For
the reasons stated in the report of the Secretary-General (A/56/800, paras. 15-
21), the Advisory Committee agrees that there is no need to change the nature
of the Board. The Committee recommends acceptance of the proposal of the
Secretary-General in paragraph 21 of his report, which is to “maintain the
positive elements of the current system, that is, advice provided by a joint body
of peers, and to rectify the problems currently experienced by that system”.



2
A/57/736

4. In paragraph 5 of the report, the Secretary-General proposes to amend staff
rule 111.1 (b) (i) to provide for joint selection of the chairpersons of the Joint
Appeals Board by staff and management. The Advisory Committee recommends
acceptance of this amendment, which reflects current informal practice.

5. The Advisory Committee agrees with the conclusion contained in the
report of the Secretary-General (A/56/800, para. 8) that there is no need to
strengthen the current advisory function of the Joint Appeals Board with
regard to suspension of action on a contested administrative decision.

6. The issue of the time available for the Joint Appeals Board to produce its
report is examined in the report of the Secretary-General (A/56/800, paras. 9-11). As
is apparent from the comments in those paragraphs, the handling of appeals to the
Board is currently fraught with unacceptable delays. The Advisory Committee
therefore welcomes the fact that the Secretary-General has requested OIOS to
conduct a management review of the entire appeals process in order to identify
the causes of the delays and to make proposals to remedy the situation
(A/56/800, para. 11).

7. The Advisory Committee requests that the study should include a review
of whether the provision of a full-time chairperson of the Joint Appeals Board
would contribute to expediting the handling of cases. OIOS should also attempt
to quantify the cost of a comparative set of selected cases from the beginning to
the time those cases are completed at the Administrative Tribunal and to
ascertain whether a strategic increase of the resources available at any
particular stage of a case would ultimately lead to a speedier handling of the
cases concerned, thereby reducing the overall level of staff time and other
resources devoted to the appeals process. Such quantification should include
the loss of workdays by staff and management that could otherwise be used to
implement work programmes. Subject to the need to protect the rights of both
the appellant and the respondent, OIOS should examine the extent to which
limitations could be placed on the frequency allowed to the parties to submit
written pleadings and counterclaims (see A/56/800, para. 10 (ii)).

8. With regard to the amendment to staff rule 110.4 in connection with due
process, the Advisory Committee notes from the report of the Secretary-General
(A/56/800, annex I) that the amended text does not require that the notification of
the allegations against the staff member be in writing. The Committee
recommends that the amendment should provide for written notification.

United Nations Administrative Tribunal

9. The differences between the statutes of the United Nations Administrative
Tribunal and the Administrative Tribunal of ILO are discussed in the report of the
Secretary-General (A/56/800, paras. 35-43). As indicated in paragraph 38 of the
report, under the statute of the ILO Administrative Tribunal “it is the Tribunal itself
that decides whether a rescission or performance ‘is not possible or desirable’, in
which case it awards the applicant monetary compensation (not subject to any
specific limits ...)”. In respect of the United Nations Administrative Tribunal, the
Tribunal fixes, “as part of its original judgement, an amount of compensation to be
paid to the applicant (subject to a conditional limit ...), leaving it to the Secretary-
General to decide whether ‘in the interest of the United Nations’ he prefers to



3
A/57/736

comply with the order for rescission or performance, or to pay the amount indicated
by the Tribunal”.

10. The Advisory Committee recalls its comment in its previous report (A/55/514,
para. 10) that “the inability of the Administrative Tribunal to order specific
performance seriously limits the staff’s rights to redress. Although this gap has
existed since the inception of the Tribunal, the Committee believes that time has
come to consider closing it, especially when a number of other far-reaching reforms
in the area of human resources management are being considered”.

11. In its resolution 55/258 (sect. XI, para. 7), the General Assembly took note of
the observations of the Advisory Committee that there was “a gap” between the
statutes of the United Nations Administrative Tribunal and the Administrative
Tribunal of ILO with respect to specific performance of an obligation and
compensation limits, and requested the Secretary-General to take necessary
measures to “close the gap” as appropriate between the statutes of the two Tribunals.

12. In its comments on the report on the administration of justice in the United
Nations, the United Nations Administrative Tribunal concludes, inter alia, that in
view of “the overwhelming support of various United Nations bodies and organs for
the need to close the gap between the two Tribunals, and taking into account the far-
reaching reforms in the area of human resources management that are taking place
in the United Nations system, the United Nations Administrative Tribunal strongly
recommends that the General Assembly amend article 9 of its statute with a view to
closing the gap between the statutes of the two Tribunals and removing the
restrictions on the authority of the United Nations Administrative Tribunal”
(A/C.5/57/25, annex II, para. 4).

13. Whether or not the General Assembly endorses the views of the United
Nations Administrative Tribunal on specific performance, the Advisory
Committee recommends that the Tribunal be strengthened through an
amendment to its statute requiring that candidates for the Tribunal possess
judicial experience in the field of administrative law or its equivalent in the
candidate’s national jurisdiction. This change would obviate the need for the
third tier, which had been recommended by the Joint Inspection Unit.

14. If the statute of the United Nations Administrative Tribunal is amended in the
manner indicated above, the Advisory Committee recommends that the
appointment continue to be done directly by the General Assembly in plenary.

15. In connection with compensation of judges at the Administrative Tribunal of
ILO and members of the United Nations Administrative Tribunal, the Advisory
Committee was informed, upon enquiry, that the judges at the Administrative
Tribunal of ILO receive the “usual” subsistence allowance (that is, not at the Under-
Secretary-General level, as do members of the United Nations Administrative
Tribunal) and a fee based on the number of cases dealt with annually. The judges get
$1,500 for each case they draft and $375 (one-fourth) for each case at which they sit
as a panel member and sign. In addition to travel and daily subsistence allowance
expenses, members of the United Nations Administrative Tribunal now receive an
honorarium of $1 per year.

16. Should the General Assembly accept the Advisory Committee’s
recommendation in paragraph 13 above on judicial qualifications, proposals could
be made by the Secretary-General regarding compensation.


