
United Nations A/57/472

 

General Assembly Distr.: General
15 October 2002

Original: English

02-64039 (E)    171002

*0264039*

Fifty-seventh session
Agenda item 116
Pattern of conferences

Improving the performance of the Department of General
Assembly Affairs and Conference Services

Status of recruitment for the Interpretation Section at the
United Nations Office at Nairobi

Simultaneous availability of parliamentary documentation
in the six official languages on the United Nations web site

Report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and
Budgetary Questions

1. The Advisory Committee on Administrative and
Budgetary Questions has considered the reports of the
Secretary-General on the pattern of conferences
(A/57/228), improving the performance of the
Department of General Assembly Affairs and
Conference Services (A/57/289) and the status of
recruitment for the Interpretation Section at the United
Nations Office at Nairobi (A/56/901), as well as the
note by the Secretary-General on the simultaneous
availability of parliamentary documentation in the six
official languages on the United Nations web site
(A/C.5/56/37). During its consideration of the reports,
the Advisory Committee met with representatives of
the Secretary-General, who provided additional
information and clarification.

2. The Advisory Committee takes note of the
information provided in the report of the Secretary-
General on the pattern of conferences concerning
utilization of conference-servicing resources and
facilities, including consideration of changes in the

methodology used for calculating the utilization factor
(A/57/228, paras. 4-22). The Committee notes in
particular the mention in paragraph 22 of
“contingencies” or “ad hoc adjustments” that could be
resorted to in order to avoid early endings of meetings.
The Committee points out that suggestions such as the
inclusion of additional agenda items for a particular
meeting in case the list of speakers is exhausted sooner
than anticipated or rescheduling or combining meetings
for which not enough speakers are inscribed would not
be possible for bodies that do not operate using a
formal agenda or a list of speakers. In the opinion of
the Committee, the statistics for utilization, the
conclusions arrived at using those statistics and the
action taken in response should take into account
the specific situations that govern the work of some
of the bodies in the underutilization category.

3. The Advisory Committee notes that the report of
the Secretary-General on improving the performance of
the Department of General Assembly Affairs and



2
A/57/472

Conference Services (A/57/289) makes no mention of
two earlier evaluations of the operations of the
Department, namely, the report of the Office of Internal
Oversight Services on the inspection of the
consolidation of technical support services in the
Department (A/55/803) and the comprehensive study
of the Secretary-General on conference services
(A/C.5/49/34 and Corr.1). Many of the conclusions
reached in those evaluations remain valid and
should be taken into account when considering the
most recent report.

4. Upon request, the Advisory Committee was
provided with a revised version of the organization
chart contained in the report, which includes the posts
associated with the various restructured units of the
Department for General Assembly and Conference
Management (see annex I below).

5. The Advisory Committee notes the plan to
integrate within the Department the technical servicing
secretariats of the Fifth and Sixth Committees of the
General Assembly (see A/57/289, paras. 10-11). The
Committee was informed that the budgetary
implications of the change would be reported in the
context of the proposed programme budget for the
biennium 2004-2005.

6. The Advisory Committee notes the statement that
requests for sessions beyond authorized duration, or
intersessional “informal consultations” that take the
form of additional unapproved sessions under another
name, will be channelled for consideration through the
Committee on Conferences (ibid., para. 15). The
Committee cautions against imposing too strict a
rule in such cases. A pragmatic approach should be
followed in order not to introduce unnecessary
restrictions on the ability of an intergovernmental
body or conference to reach a successful conclusion.
In this connection, the Committee recalls its
comments in paragraph I.50 of its first report on
the proposed programme budget for the biennium
2002-2003.1

7. The Advisory Committee notes the section of the
report entitled “integrating global management” (ibid.,
paras. 31-40), in particular paragraph 39 thereof, in
which the role of the Department and the Under-
Secretary-General in the areas of budgeting and
personnel at all the duty stations is discussed. While
the Committee commends the aim of ensuring that
the institutional relationship between the

Department and the other three duty stations is
uniform and effectively supports the goal of
integrated global management of the Department
(ibid., para. 33), it cautions against a situation in
which the Department might become a remote
supervisor. The Committee stresses that the concept
of delegation of authority should not be
compromised. The objective should be for the
Department to centralize general policy setting and
formulation of standards and guidelines while
delegating full responsibility and accountability for
day-to-day operational activities, including
management of budgetary and staff resources.

8. The Advisory Committee notes that the
examination of the Department described in the report
focused mainly on Headquarters. Upon enquiry, the
Committee was informed that the overseas duty
stations had been consulted and that a draft of the
report had been given to them for comment but that
reform of those offices would be included in a second
phase. The Committee emphasizes that involvement
of the overseas duty stations and the related
legislative machinery is essential if reform is to be
successful. The Committee recalls paragraph I.27 of
its first report on the proposed programme budget
for the biennium 2002-2003, in which it emphasized
the need for closer cooperation among all duty
stations and the regional commissions in the use of
conference-servicing resources.

9. In this connection, the Advisory Committee was
informed of the intention of the Secretariat to initiate a
system-wide review of meeting schedules. The
Committee welcomes this initiative and sees merit in
the involvement of Member States in the exercise, with
a view to optimizing the use of conference-servicing
resources across all duty stations and the regional
commissions.

10. In the report, the Secretary-General discusses a
number of translation and interpretation issues (ibid.,
paras. 34-36). The Advisory Committee takes note of
the statement in paragraph 36 that existing pay scales
for contractual translation have not changed since
1995, putting the Organization in a position where it is
less competitive with other bidders for translation
services, as well as of the Secretary-General’s intention
to develop proposals to introduce a new rate scale so
that the corps of contractual translators can be
expanded. The Committee welcomes the Department’s
intention to explore the possibilities afforded by



3
A/57/472

electronic transmission of documentation to increase
the use of off-site translators for the more time-
sensitive documents, which heretofore have been
handled by on-site translators only (freelance
contractors based in their home countries have
traditionally been employed only for documents with a
long lead time). The new system is intended to reduce
the need for freelance translators on site, thereby
producing substantial savings in respect of travel and
per diem. The Committee understands that practical
arrangements, such as pay rates for such translators, are
still to be worked out. Upon enquiry, the Committee
was informed that, owing to the shortage of in-house
translation resources, only random spot checks were
conducted on the work of contractual translators. The
Committee is of the view that the implementation of
the new system should be carefully monitored and
that the expanded use of contractual and off-site
translators should include provision for revision by
in-house revisers.

11. The Advisory Committee has noted a significant
deterioration in the quality of translations in some
languages. Upon request, the Committee was provided
with an outline of factors affecting the quality of
translations (see annex II). Among these was the fact
that, owing to a high number of retirements and
resignations in the Translation and Editorial Division
as a whole, there is an imbalance between experienced
staff and junior staff in some of the translation
services. In addition, as mentioned in paragraph 10
above, some of the translation services have had
problems attracting and retaining qualified staff owing
to competition from other employers, such as the
European Union, and this has, in some cases, led to
high vacancy rates.

12. The Advisory Committee urges the Department to
seek innovative solutions to the problem of the
deteriorating quality of translation. In particular, the
Committee recommends a renewed commitment to
training for both translators and interpreters. In
this connection, the Committee welcomes the re-
establishment of the in-house interpreter training
programme, as recommended by the Committee in its
report of 16 October 2001 (A/56/475) and approved by
the General Assembly in section IV, paragraph 3, of its
resolution 56/242 of 24 December 2001. The
Committee understands that ad hoc arrangements exist
in the translation services to provide on-the-job
training to promising candidates identified through

informal in-service translation examinations. Such
candidates are recruited as freelance translators for
short periods, during which they undergo on-the-job
training under close supervision with the aim of
increasing their chances of success on United Nations
competitive examinations for translators. The
Committee recommends that the Department look
into the possibility of using national translation and
interpretation institutions for training. The
Committee requests that training programmes be
clearly identified in future programme budget
proposals.

13. The Advisory Committee notes the information
concerning current workload standards for interpreters,
translators and text processors (ibid., annex I). The
Committee also notes that the Committee on
Conferences, in paragraphs 84 and 85 of its report to
the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh session2 has
requested the Secretary-General to update the
standards, taking into account the best practices and
experience of other bodies and organizations and
drawing on expert advice as needed. In view of the fact
that the current standards measure quantitative output
only, the Committee on Conferences also invited the
Secretary-General to develop further performance
indicators in order to evaluate the quality of the
functions performed.

14. The Advisory Committee was informed of the
intention of the Secretary-General to abolish the
Official Records Editing Section. As indicated in the
report (A/57/289, annex II, para. 4; see also annex I
below), a new Editorial, Terminology and Reference
Service will be established through the integration of
the Editorial Control Section and the Terminology and
Reference Section. The plan includes strengthening the
editing function through the redeployment of some
editors from the Official Records Editing Section to the
new Service. The concordance of the different
language versions of draft resolutions, formerly
performed after their adoption by editors in the Official
Records Editing Section, would in future be performed
prior to adoption by editors/translators redeployed from
the former Official Records Editing Section to the
translation services. The Committee stresses the
importance of retaining the concordance principle
in order to ensure equally valid texts of resolutions
in all six official languages.

15. With respect to departmental plans for optimizing
the use of technology (ibid., paras. 41-48), the



4
A/57/472

Advisory Committee notes with interest the plan of
action described in paragraphs 42 and 43 for complete
electronic processing of documents. The Committee
was informed that the project mentioned in paragraph
44 to include online interactive capabilities in the new
Journal of the United Nations had already been
implemented. The Committee welcomes this
development. As indicated in paragraph 47, a number
of projects are under consideration for implementation
in the context of the capital master plan. The
Committee requests that follow-up information on
the status of implementation of those projects,
including associated costs, be provided in the
context of future reports of the Secretary-General
on the pattern of conferences, as well as programme
budget proposals.

16. The Advisory Committee takes note of the
statement that the productivity gains made by the
electronic flow of documents would shift the work of
text processors from typing to the more complex tasks
of proof-reading, formatting and desktop publishing
(ibid., annex I, para. 8).

17. The Advisory Committee takes note of the plan
for upstream planning and the establishment of a
slotting system for the processing of reports (ibid.,
paras. 53-56). The Committee points out that a
systematic analysis of all the reasons behind the
delays in the issuance of documents would need to
be carried out in order to improve upstream
planning and make it effective. Moreover, with
regard to the proposed slotting system, the
Committee stresses that it will be necessary to
evaluate the effectiveness of the measures taken and
adjust them accordingly in the light of experience.

18. The report describes the background relating to
the chronically late issuance of summary records (ibid.,
paras. 58-62). The suggestion is made in paragraph 61
that summary records could be replaced with digital
sound recordings to be made available in all six official
languages on the United Nations web site or at
listening booths at the main conference centres where
bodies entitled to summary records meet. The Advisory
Committee notes that the Committee on Conferences,
in paragraph 80 of its report,2 has requested the
Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly
no later than at its fifty-eighth session on possible ways
of addressing the issue.

19. A number of innovations to decrease the
distribution and reproduction of hard copies of
documents are described in the report (A/57/289, paras.
63-66). Among these are the introduction of printing on
demand, whereby documents in addition to the number
initially distributed to missions and Secretariat staff are
printed upon request, the direct shipping of documents
printed externally to users outside Headquarters and
the elimination of pouch or courier shipments of
documents to duty stations that have the capability of
downloading and printing their own copies from the
Official Document System (ODS) or other United
Nations databases. Upon enquiry, the Advisory
Committee was informed that the Department did not
intend to eliminate hard copies altogether. In the view
of the Committee, a survey of all missions should be
conducted in order to ascertain their views on this
matter, as well as to determine their capacity to
receive and print electronic documents, after which
a study should be undertaken to examine the cost-
effectiveness of assisting missions lacking that
capability to attain it. Clearly, before any measures
are taken to reduce the number of documents to be
distributed, all documents not distributed in hard
copy must be available on demand on ODS, and the
implementation of any new procedures should be
carefully monitored, including their impact on the
provision of services to Member States.

20. The Advisory Committee takes note of the report
of the Secretary-General on the status of recruitment
for the Interpretation Section at the United Nations
Office at Nairobi (A/56/901) and the note by the
Secretary-General on the simultaneous availability of
parliamentary documentation in the six official
languages on the United Nations web site
(A/C.5/56/37).

Notes

1 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-sixth
Session, Supplement No. 7 (A/56/7).

2 Ibid., Fifty-seventh Session, Supplement No. 32
(A/57/32).



5
Annex I
Department for General Assembly and Conference Management

* So
va

Office of the Under-Secretary-General

RB:
1 USG
1 ASG

1 D-1
1 P-5
1 P-4

4 GS

Conference services at the
United Nations Office at Geneva

Conference services at the
United Nations Office at Vienna

Conference services at the
United Nations Office at Nairobi

Executive Office
RB:

1 D-1 1 P-2
1 P-5 3 GS (PL)
1 P-4 10 GS
1 P-3

 Management echnology Unit
7 GS (RB)

6 GS (XB)

 P gramming onitoring Unit
RB

1 GS (PL)
4 GS

embly and Ec ic and
u cil Affairs ion

Central Planning and Coordination
Service

Meetings and Publishing Division Documentation Division

A
Information
1 P-5 (RB)
1 P-4 (XB)

Documents

1 P-5
1 P-4

General Ass
Social Co
Reportin
Executiv

me posts to move 
rious Translation S

General
Assembly

ffairs Branch

RB:
1 D-1

1 P-5
1 P-4
1 P-3
1 P-2

2 GS (PL)
4 GS

A
ro

n
g line
e Coordinat

within Docu
ervices.

RB:
1 D-2

1 GS

Economic an
Social Coun

ffairs Bran

RB:
1 D-1

2 P-5
2 P-4
1 P-3

7 GS
 and T

 and M
:

onom
Divis
A
/57/472

ion

mentation Division, to the

RB:
1 D-1

1 GS

RB:
1 D-2

1 P-4
1 GS

RB:
1 D-2

1 GS

d
cil

ch

Disarmament and
Decolonization

Affairs Branch

RB:
1 D-1

2 P-5
4 P-4
1 P-3

6 GS

Documents
Control

Section

RB:
1 P-5
1 P-4
1 P-3

1 GS (PL)
21 GS

Meetings
Control

Section

RB:
1 P-5
1 P-4
3 P-3
1 P-2

1 GS (PL)
4 GS

Interpretation Service

RB:
1 D-1

30 P-5
61 P-4
27 P-3

3 GS

Verbatim Reporting
Service

RB:
1 D-1

6 P-5
8 P-4

35 P-3
1 GS (PL)

5 GS

Copy Preparation and
Proof-reading Section

RB:
1 P-5
4 P-4

14 P-3
6 GS

Text Processing Section

RB:
1 P-3 6 GS (PL)
233 GS

Correspondence Unit
RB:

1 GS (PL) 7 GS

Meetings Servicing Unit

RB:
1 P-3

15 GS
4 GS (PL)

Publishing Section

RB:
1 P-5 2 GS (PL)
1 P-4 85 GS
2 P-3 86 TC

Journal of the United Nations
RB: 2 GS (PL)

Editorial,
Terminology and

Reference Service

RB:
1 D-1

1 GS

Editorial Control
Section*

2 P-5
17 P-4
29 P-3

2 P-2
12 GS (PL)

8 GS

Terminology and
Reference Section

1 P-5
3 P-4
5 P-3
1 P-2

22 GS (PL)
6 GS

Translation
Services

RB:
6 D-1

53 P-5
133 P-4
104 P-3

11 P-2
23 GS

XB:
2 P-5
3 P-4
1 P-3

1 GS (PL)
4 GS

Contractual
Translation

Unit

RB:
1 P-5

1 GS (PL)
5 GS



6
A/57/472

Annex II
Problems affecting the quality of services in the Department
for General Assembly and Conference Management

– “Crisis-mode” operation (i.e., last-minute additions to the work programme)

– Insufficient or inaccurate workload projections (especially with regard to
overnight processing of documentation)

– Inaccurate information on expected length of meetings (especially with regard
to meeting services — précis writing, interpretation)

– Late submission of manuscripts

– Submission of lengthy manuscripts

– Inadequate information technology support

– Poor quality of manuscripts submitted

– Difficulty in attracting, recruiting and retaining qualified language staff

– Demographics of language services (i.e., departures of experienced staff owing
to retirement and consequential imbalance between experienced and junior
staff)

– Difficulty in finding staff who possess the required language combinations

– Limited supply of qualified local interpreters/translators


