
United Nations A/57/439

 

General Assembly Distr.: General
30 September 2002

Original: English

02-61255 (E)    041002

*0261255*

Fifty seventh session
Agenda item 110
Financial reports and audited financial statements,
and reports of the Board of Auditors

Financial reports and audited financial statements and
reports of the Board of Auditors for the period ended
31 December 2001

Report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and
Budgetary Questions

1. In accordance with regulation 12.11 of the
Financial Regulations and Rules of the United Nations,
the Advisory Committee on Administrative and
Budgetary Questions received the financial reports,
audited financial statements and reports of the Board of
Auditors to the General Assembly for the following
entities for the biennium ended 31 December 2001: the
United Nations,1 the International Trade Centre
UNCTAD/WTO,2 the United Nations University
(UNU),3 the United Nations Development Programme
(UNDP),4 the United Nations Children’s Fund
(UNICEF),5 the United Nations Relief and Works
Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East,6 the
United Nations Institute for Training and Research
(UNITAR),7 the Fund of the United Nations
Environment Programme,8 the United Nations
Population Fund (UNFPA),9 the United Nations Habitat
and Human Settlements Foundation,10 the Fund of the
United Nations International Drug Control Programme
(UNDCP),11 the United Nations Office for Project
Services (UNOPS),12 the International Criminal
Tribunal for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for
Genocide and Other Serious Violations of International
Humanitarian Law Committed in the Territory of
Rwanda and Rwandan Citizens Responsible for
Genocide and Other Such Violations Committed in the

Territory of Neighbouring States between 1 January
and 31 December 199413 and the International Tribunal
for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Serious
Violations of International Humanitarian Law
Committed in the Territory of the Former Yugoslavia
since 1991.14 In addition, the Committee had before it
the report on the accounts of the voluntary funds
administered by the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) for the year
ended 31 December 2001.15 The financial reports,
audited financial statements and report of the Board of
Auditors on the United Nations peacekeeping
operations for the period from 1 July 2001 to 30 June
200216 will be considered by the Committee at its
session in February and March 2003. The audited
accounts of the World Food Programme for the
biennium 2000-2001, which are not covered by the
Board of Auditors, are currently under consideration by
the Committee. Its comments and observations will be
communicated to the Executive Board of the
Programme through its Executive Director.

2. The Advisory Committee’s observations and
comments on the report of the Board of Auditors on the
United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund for the
biennium ended 31 December 200117 will be submitted



2
A/57/439

separately to the General Assembly at its fifty-seventh
session in a report that will include the Committee’s
recommendations on the report of the United Nations
Joint Staff Pension Board.18

3. The Advisory Committee had advance copies of
the concise summary of principal findings, conclusions
and recommendations contained in the reports prepared
by the Board of Auditors for the General Assembly at
its fifty-seventh session (A/57/201), as well as the
reports of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of the recommendations of the Board of Auditors by
the United Nations and the United Nations funds and
programmes for the financial period ended 31
December 2001 (A/57/416 and Add.1).

4. During its consideration of the reports, the
Advisory Committee met with the members of the
Audit Operations Committee, as well as with the
Controller and other representatives of the Secretary-
General, who provided additional information and
clarification.

5. In the paragraphs below, the Advisory Committee
highlights a number of key issues.

6. At the time the Advisory Committee began
consideration of the reports, only five of the reports of
the Board of Auditors had been published in all official
languages. The timing of the publication of the reports
has been a matter of concern to the Committee for
many years. In this connection, the Committee recalls
paragraph 6 of its report of 16 October 2000
(A/55/487), in which it stated its view that:

“reports of the Board and the related report of the
Committee should be published in all official
languages early in the regular session of the
General Assembly. Reports of the Secretary-
General on implementation should be submitted
in time for the Advisory Committee to take them
into account when it considers reports of the
Board of Auditors. The timely submission of all
documentation concerning reports of the Board of
Auditors will also allow the Advisory Committee
to exchange views with representatives of the
audited administration before it submits its final
comments and recommendations to the General
Assembly.”

In paragraph 5 of its resolution 55/220 of 23 December
2000, the General Assembly requested the Secretary-
General and the executive heads of the funds and

programmes to present their financial statements on
time so that the Board could audit them and submit its
reports to the Assembly in accordance with the six-
week rule.

7. The Advisory Committee was informed that the
Secretariat had received the reports of the Board for
processing, including the summary report, on 1 and 2
July 2002. The Committee was further informed that
the final report would be published in the beginning of
October, with the item scheduled for consideration by
the Fifth Committee beginning on 16 October. The
Committee points out that such a schedule takes no
account of the need to have the reports available for the
Committee’s consideration prior to their consideration
by the General Assembly. Upon enquiry as to the
reasons for the delay, the Committee was informed that
the Department of General Assembly Affairs and
Conference Services had received approximately 1,800
pages for processing all at one time and that it lacked
the capacity to comply with the requirements of the
six-week rule stipulated in paragraph 5 of Assembly
resolution 55/220.

8. The Advisory Committee is not persuaded by
the arguments put forth by the representatives of
the Secretary-General. The reports of the Board of
Auditors are not an unexpected part of the
workload of the Department of General Assembly
Affairs and Conference Services, and it is the
opinion of the Committee that with more innovative
thinking and better communication and planning,
solutions to the problem could be found. The
external audit reports are important tools made
available to Member States to evaluate, among
other things, performance, accountability for
internal controls and the use of resources in
accordance with the purposes for which they have
been authorized. The Committee therefore
underscores the importance of the timely receipt of
the reports of the Board of Auditors and
recommends that, in the context of efforts to
improve the performance of the Department,
measures be taken to ensure timely publication of
the reports of the Board.

9. Reports on the status of implementation of
recommendations of the Board for the biennium 1998-
1999 are found in the annex to each of the reports of
the Board and in summary form in annex II to the
concise summary (A/57/201). The Advisory
Committee welcomes the structural improvements



3
A/57/439

made by the Board in the presentation of the
annexes to each of its reports, and requests it to
strive for further improvements.

10. The reports of the Secretary-General on the
implementation of the recommendations of the Board
(A/57/416 and Add.1) provide information on action
taken or to be taken by the audited administrations
pursuant to recommendations in the reports of the
Board for the financial period ended 31 December
2001. Further information on implementation of the
recommendations of the Board, as well as of other
oversight bodies, the Advisory Committee and the
Committee for Programme and Coordination, is
included in the reports of the Secretary-General on the
proposed programme budget and on peacekeeping
financing.

11. The reports of the Secretary-General on
implementation of the recommendations of the Board
of Auditors by the United Nations and the funds and
programmes of the United Nations (A/57/416 and
Add.1) are an essential tool for holding administrations
accountable for complying with recommendations of
the Board as endorsed by the General Assembly.
Accordingly, the Advisory Committee requests that
those reports be published in a timely manner,
taking into account the observations set out in
paragraphs 6 to 8 above. The Committee also
recommends that the reports be streamlined to
exclude action or intentions previously
communicated to the Board that have already been
included in reports submitted to the Assembly.

12. The Advisory Committee recalls the comment it
made in paragraph 2 of its report of 5 April 2001
(A/55/878) on the report of the Board of Auditors on
the peacekeeping operations for the 12-month period
ended 30 June 200019 concerning the need for the
Administration to provide information on progress
achieved in implementing the recommendations of the
Board, as well as the results and changes produced by
implementing those recommendations or by the
corrective measures taken in response. The Committee
also recalls paragraph 14 of its report of 16 October
2000 (A/55/487) in which it encouraged organizations
to continue to develop and improve performance
measurement standards that could facilitate the task of
the audit in assessing programme performance and
achievement objectives and mandates. The Committee
recommends that these procedures be extended to
all audit reports. In this connection, the Committee

welcomes the information provided by members of
the Audit Operations Committee that it would
establish criteria to evaluate results of the Board’s
implementation.

13. The Advisory Committee was informed that
across-the-board reductions made by the General
Assembly to the regular budget for the biennium 2002-
2003 had effectively reduced the resources of the
Board by approximately $316,300. The Committee was
further informed that in some audits, such as, for
example, those of the legal aid system in the two
Tribunals and of information technology, the Board, of
necessity, had recourse to specialized outside expertise.
In view of this phenomenon and of the continuing
requests for the Board to carry out special audits,
the Committee will examine, in the context of its
consideration of the proposed programme budget
for the biennium 2004-2005, the adequacy of the
audit fee, as it affects the scope of coverage and the
quality of the audits. To this end, the Committee
requests the Board to submit to it comprehensive
information on total audit expenditure for the four
bienniums from 1996 to 2003, as well as on audit
expenditure for the peacekeeping operations.
Information should also be supplied concerning the
extent to which expenditures of the members of the
Board are or have been subsidized by their national
institutions.

14. The Advisory Committee was informed that the
Board was considering a diagnostic review of training
in the United Nations and its funds and programmes.
The Committee welcomes this development.

15. The Advisory Committee notes that the Board
modified the audit reports of UNDP,20 UNHCR,21

UNFPA,22 UNDCP23 and UNOPS24 (see also A/57/201,
paras. 4-7). In response to its request for clarification
of this issue, the Committee was provided with an
explanatory note (see annex).

United Nations

16. The Advisory Committee notes from paragraph
14 of the report of the Board of Auditors25 that the total
income given for the United Nations for the biennium
2000-2001 of $12.95 billion includes $8.34 billion (64
per cent) for the United Nations Compensation
Commission (UNCC). The Committee is of the
opinion that combining the income and expenditure
of UNCC with that of the United Nations distorts



4
A/57/439

the financial position of the United Nations. The
Committee therefore recommends that the financial
statements and schedules of UNCC be prepared
separately and be reported on by the Board for
consideration by the Governing Council of UNCC.
The Committee was informed that UNCC bears the
cost of its audit.

17. In paragraphs 21 to 23 of the report, the Board
expressed concern about the increasing number of
financial statements and schedules. The Advisory
Committee, upon enquiry, was informed by the
representatives of the Secretary-General that measures
to streamline the financial statements and schedules
had been decided upon, but that the Secretariat was
awaiting completion of similar exercises in the funds
and programmes before implementation. The
Committee recommends that the streamlining of the
United Nations financial statements and the
schedules thereto be implemented in time for the
Board to audit the revised statements and schedules
for the biennium 2004-2005.

18. The Advisory Committee notes with concern
the information provided in paragraphs 195-197 of
the report under special political missions with
regard to field air operations. This is an area of
particular interest to the Committee. The
Committee intends to follow up on this matter
during its own consideration of the report of the
Board on peacekeeping operations, as well as
during its consideration of the financing of the
individual peacekeeping operations at its session in
February and March 2003.

19. The asset management and control system is
discussed in paragraphs 198 to 201 of the report of
the Board. The Advisory Committee expresses its
concern about deficiencies in control and
emphasizes the need to implement the field assets
control system  secretariat-wide.

20. Implementation of the comments and
recommendations of the Board concerning the
Department of General Assembly Affairs and
Conference Services (see paras. 276-285 of the
report) should be reported on in the context of the
implementation of such proposals contained in the
report of the Secretary-General on improving the
performance of the Department (A/57/289) as may
be approved by the General Assembly. The

Committee intends to submit its recommendations
on that report to the Assembly at its current session.

International Tribunals

21. The Advisory Committee commends and
welcomes the Board’s findings and recommendations
on the legal aid system of the two Tribunals. In
particular, the Committee notes the Board’s
recommendations with regard to the formulation of
definitions for “indigence” and “sufficient means”, the
establishment of clear criteria for eligibility or partial
eligibility for legal aid and the development of a
formula to determine the contributions to be made by
the persons who qualify for partial legal aid. The
Committee also notes the recommendations of the
Board with regard to verifying the financial positions
of the accused. The Committee requests the Board to
follow up on the results of the implementation of its
recommendations.

22. The Advisory Committee notes that the two
Tribunals have accepted the bulk of the
recommendations and that some recommendations
have already been implemented. The Committee
recommends that the two Tribunals exchange
experience and lessons learned from the procedures
they have established to manage and control the
legal aid system. In this connection, the Committee
requests the Tribunals to re-examine the thresholds
of $360,000 for the International Tribunal for the
Former Yugoslavia, as set out in paragraph 51 of
the report of the Board of Auditors26 and $740,214
for the International Tribunal for Rwanda
(A/57/416/Add.1, para. 669). These are the thresholds
below which the Tribunals would regard a person as
indigent, or without sufficient means, and therefore
qualified for legal aid up to those amounts. In the case
of the International Tribunal for the Former
Yugoslavia, the threshold was based on a 12-month
ceiling on legal aid defence fees (see paras. 50 and 51
of the report26). In the case of the International
Tribunal for Rwanda, it was based on the defence costs
of nine cases already completed, with the average cost
for each trial amounting to $740,214.27 The re-
examination should take into account the views of
the Board on the factors, including the
methodology, to be considered in determining the
financial position of a person (see para. 47 of the
report28).



5
A/57/439

23. The Advisory Committee acknowledges that the
two Tribunals lack effective capacity to fully
investigate claims of indigence by detainees (see para.
53 of the Board of Auditors report28). It is also of the
view that a thorough and exhaustive investigation
might be expensive and take a long time to complete,
leading perhaps to unacceptable delays, especially
given that cooperation by all concerned is often
lacking. The Committee recommends that, if it is
considered useful, the two Tribunals have recourse
to outside expertise, with a view to setting
appropriate simple and practical criteria and
guidelines on the matter. The results of this exercise
should be reported in the context of the next budget
submission.

24. The Advisory Committee welcomes the
comments and recommendations of the Board on the
questions of documentation and language services.29

The Committee had the opportunity to exchange views
with the representatives of the two Tribunals when it
visited The Hague and Arusha and was able to
appreciate the seriousness of this matter. The
Committee expresses concern about the apparent
lack of overall guidelines on the matter of
translating trial-related documents. The Committee
therefore fully concurs with the Board’s
recommendation on the need for the Tribunals to
re-examine their translation policies so as to become
more selective, subject to the role and authority of
the judges and the need to respect and protect the
rights of the accused. The Committee intends to
follow up on this subject, as well as the question of
completion strategies, when it examines the budgets
of the two Tribunals.

Funds and programmes

25. The Advisory Committee commends the Board
for the audit it performed on programme
implementation by implementing partners,
particularly in funds and programmes of the United
Nations, and on the related issues of accountability
and control of resources. As indicated above, the
Board modified its opinion on five organizations of
the system (UNOPS, UNDP, UNFPA, UNHCR and
UNDCP; see A/57/201, paras. 4-7). The Committee
requests the Board to report in the context of the
next audit what progress has been achieved in
resolving the specific matters of concern that led to
the modification of its opinion on those five

organizations. There is a need to ensure that
resources are used optimally and that the cost of
programme implementation is minimized, especially
in view of what the Committee has perceived to be
the precarious financial situation of those
organizations. The Committee also intends to follow
up on the recommendations of the Board with
respect to the accounts of funds and programmes in
the context of its review of the support budgets of
those organizations for the biennium 2004-2005.

26. With respect to UNICEF, the Advisory
Committee notes from paragraphs 97 and 105 of the
Board’s report30 that the Board again reviewed the
accounting treatment of UNICEF cash assistance to
Governments following the Fund’s revision of its
financial regulations to align them with its practice of
accounting for cash assistance as final programme
expenditure (see also A/57/201, para. 50). Of the $368
million disbursed in 2000-2001 as cash assistance to
Governments (or 19 per cent of all programme
expenditure), the Board at the time of the audit was
unable to obtain assurance as to the proper utilization
of $181 million of expenditure. The Board
recommended that UNICEF take the opportunity of the
triennial comprehensive policy review to reconsider its
policy. In this connection, the Committee had
difficulties reconciling the information included in
paragraphs 50 to 54 of the report of the Executive
Director of UNICEF on cash assistance to
Governments (E/ICEF/2002/AB/L.5) with the
Board’s findings. The Committee requests the
Board to follow up on this matter during the next
audit to ascertain whether the many weaknesses it
identified in paragraphs 96 to 134 of its report on
UNICEF have been fully resolved to its satisfaction.

27. The Board modified its opinion on UNOPS in
view of the financial position of the Office and its
ability to fund in full any deficit from the operational
reserve (see Summary, para. (a), of the report of the
Board.24 The Board points out, inter alia, that UNOPS
may not cover all its proposed administrative
expenditure budget with the projected level of income.
This is a matter of serious concern to the Advisory
Committee, which has recently submitted its report
on the revised UNOPS budget for 2002-2003 to the
Executive Board of UNDP and UNFPA. If it is the
wish of the Member States that UNOPS continue as
a separate and identifiable entity that provides
services to organizations of the United Nations



6
A/57/439

system for the management and delivery of
programmes and projects, it is incumbent upon the
Secretary-General to take steps to ensure the
viability and success of UNOPS.

Notes

1 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-seventh
Session, Supplement No. 5 (A/57/5), vol. I.

2 Ibid., vol. III.
3 Ibid., vol. IV.
4 Ibid., Supplement No. 5A (A/57/5/Add.1).
5 Ibid., Supplement No. 5B (A/57/5/Add.2).
6 Ibid., Supplement No. 5C (A/57/5/Add.3).
7 Ibid., Supplement No. 5D (A/57/5/Add.4).
8 Ibid., Supplement No. 5F (A/57/5/Add.6).
9 Ibid., Supplement No. 5G (A/57/5/Add.7).

10 Ibid., Supplement No. 5H (A/57/5/Add.8).
11 Ibid., Supplement No. 5I (A/57/5/Add.9).
12 Ibid., Supplement No. 5J (A/57/5/Add.10).
13 Ibid., Supplement No. 5K and corrigendum

(A/57/5/Add.11 and Corr.1).
14 Ibid., Supplement No. 5L (A/57/5/Add.12).
15 Ibid., Supplement No. 5E (A/57/5/Add.5).
16 Ibid., Supplement No. 5E (A/57/5/Add.2).
16 To be issued as Official Records of the General

Assembly, Fifty-seventh Session, Supplement No. 5
(A/57/5), vol. II.

17 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-seventh
Session, Supplement No. 9 (A/57/9), annex XII.

18 Ibid., Supplement No. 9 (A/57/9).
18 Ibid., Fifty-fifth Session, Supplement No. 5 (A/55/5),

vol. II, chap. II.
20 Ibid., Fifty-seventh Session, Supplement No. 5A

(A/57/5/Add.1), chap. II.
21 Ibid., Supplement No. 5E (A/57/5/Add.5), chap. II.
22 Ibid., Supplement No. 5G (A/57/5/Add.7), chap. II.
23 Ibid., Supplement No. 5I (A/57/5/Add.9), chap. II.
24 Ibid., Supplement No. 5J (A/57/5/Add.10), chap. II.
25 Ibid., Supplement No. 5 (A/57/5), vol. I, chap. II.
26 Ibid., Supplement No. 5L (A/57/5/Add.12), chap. II.

27 The Committee was informed that the International
Tribunal for Rwanda had not yet established a scale for
determining the amount of legal aid to be given to an
indigent accused whose assets fall below the threshold of
$740,214 but are above $10,000. It was also informed
that the Tribunal was in the process of negotiating with
several Member States for assistance in the engagement
of short-term consultants to look into the question of the
threshold for indigence, to develop a formula under
which the Tribunal would be able to determine the
contributions to be made by an accused person who
partially qualifies for legal aid and to examine the whole
payment scheme under the Tribunal’s legal aid
programme, with a view to coming up with a
comprehensive system of payment that is efficient,
predictable and easier to budget for and to justify.

28 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-seventh
Session, Supplement No. 5K and corrigendum
(A/57/5/Add.11 and Corr.1), chap. II.

29 Ibid., Supplement No. 5K (A/57/5/Add.11 and Corr.1),
chap. II, paras. 75-77, and Supplement No. 5L
(A/57/5/Add.12), chap. II, paras. 74-78.

30 Ibid., Supplement No. 5B (A/57/5/Add.2), chap. II.



7
A/57/439

Annex
Explanatory notes provided by the Audit Operations
Committee on the different types of audit opinionsa

In the United Nations context, the Board of Auditors reports include two
sections: the long-form audit report (usually chapter II), which provides details on
particular areas of concern or significance and the short-form audit report, which
provides the audit opinion (usually chapter III in the Board’s published reports). The
present note focuses only on the short-form audit report.

The Board of Auditors complies with the United Nations common auditing
standards of the Panel of External Auditors of the United Nations, the specialized
agencies and the International Atomic Energy Agency (Panel). These standards
include a prescribed format for the short-form audit report, providing an opinion on
the financial statements and an opinion on compliance with legislative authorities.
The United Nations common auditing standards are also based on and supplemented
by the International Standards on Auditing (ISA).

An opinion is not required on performance aspects, that is, that funds have
been utilized effectively, efficiently and economically, although the Board regularly
comments on these matters in the long-form audit report.

The opinion paragraph of the auditors’ reports clearly indicates the financial
reporting framework used to prepare the financial statements and states the auditors’
opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view (or are
presented fairly in all material respects) in accordance with that financial reporting
framework and, where appropriate, whether the financial statements comply with
statutory and legislative requirements.

According to ISA 700, the auditor can issue audit reports falling into two
generic categories, namely, modified and unmodified. An unmodified report is
provided when the auditor concludes that the financial statements give a clear or
true view (or are fairly presented, in all material respects) in accordance with the
identified reporting framework. The audit opinion is therefore unqualified.

An auditor’s report is considered modified in the following situations:

1. Matters that do not affect the auditors’ opinion: “emphasis of matter”
paragraph to highlight a matter;

2. Matters that do affect the auditors’ opinion:

(a) Qualified opinion (“except for”);

(b) Disclaimer of opinion; or

(c) Adverse opinion.

The explanations of these different types of opinions are summarized in the
following schematic presentation.

a As requested by the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions on 16
September 2002.



A
/57/439

8 Audit Reports

Modified Unmodified

Affect opinion on 
Financial 

Statements?

NoYes
Limitation of scope or 

disagreement with 
management 

Disclaimer
No opinion can be 

expressed on the 
financial statements 

because the limitation 
of scope is so 

material that 
insufficient evidence 

has been attained to 
support the audit 

opinion.

Adverse
The effect of the 

auditor's findings is 
so material or 

pervasive that the 
auditor concludes that 

a qualification of the 
report (see next box) 

is insufficient to 
disclose the 

misleading or 
incomplete nature of 

the limitation of scope 
or disagreement with 

management.

Qualified
Disagreement with 

management or 
limitation of scope not 

material enough to 
require an adverse or 

disclaimer opinion. 
The opinion is 

expressed as "except 
for …". This may 

affect individual 
balances stated in the 

qualification but not 
the financial 

statements as a 
whole. 

Emphasis of matter
The auditor uses an 

emphasis paragraph 
to highlight a certain 

area to provide 
additional 

information. 

Unqualified Opinion



9
A/57/439

Illustrative example of impact on audit reports

Scenario: An organization advances funds to its implementing partners (could be
Government, non-governmental organizations or other agencies), although it still
remains accountable for such funds. The accounting practice is to raise a receivable
when an advance is given and to clear those receivables to expenditure on receipt of
documentation confirming spending of the funds. In addition, the organization also
requires the implementing partners to have the utilization of the funds audited and
for the subsequent audit certificates to be submitted to the organization’s
headquarters.

(a) In analysing the above scenario, only the advance and expenditure
accounts directly affect the financial statements. Accordingly, only those controls
and procedures that may influence the accuracy and completeness of such account
balances will impact on the external auditor’s opinion on the financial statements.
The audit certificates received from the implementing partners would only affect the
external auditors’ comments on the performance of the funds, that is, the utilization
of the funds for the purpose for which it was intended (the external auditor is not
specifically required to express an opinion on performance).

(b) If the external auditors found material errors or misstatements with the
receivable and expenditure balances, they would issue a modified report expressing
a qualified or adverse opinion on the financial statements. (i) If the errors were
significant, but not material or pervasive in the context of the entire preparation and
presentation of the financial statements, the opinion would be qualified (“except
for”). (ii) However, if the errors or misstatements were so material or pervasive that
they impacted on the fair presentation of the entire financial statements, the auditor
would express an adverse opinion. (iii) In the case of limitation of scope on the
work of the auditor, for example, a restriction of access to documentation, the
auditor would express a “disclaimer of opinion”.

In instances where the auditor wishes to highlight a certain area of concern or
significance or to provide additional information, the audit report could be modified
to include an emphasis of matter paragraph following the opinion on the financial
statements. The information contained in this paragraph does not directly affect the
auditors’ opinion on the financial statements. Using our example, the concerns on
the performance of the funds expended by implementing partners as well as the
audit certificates supporting conclusions in this regard could be highlighted in such
an “emphasis of matter” paragraph.


