
United Nations A/57/453

 

General Assembly Distr.: General
7 October 2002

Original: English

02-62346 (E)    091002

*0262346*

Fifty-seventh session
Agenda items 111 and 112

Review of the efficiency of the administrative and financial
functioning of the United Nations

Programme budget for the biennium 2002-2003

Procurement reform

Outsourcing practices

Proposed measures to improve the profitability of
commercial activities of the United Nations

Report of the Advisory Committee
on Administrative and Budgetary
Questions

1. The Advisory Committee on Administrative and
Budgetary Questions has considered the reports of the
Secretary-General on procurement reform (A/57/187),
outsourcing practices (A/57/185) and proposed
measures to improve the profitability of the
commercial activities of the United Nations
(A/57/398). During its consideration of the reports, the
Committee met with representatives of the Secretary-
General, who provided additional information.

Procurement reform

2. The report of the Secretary-General (A/57/187) is
submitted pursuant to General Assembly resolution
55/247 of 1 May 2001. The Advisory Committee
commends the Secretary-General on the format of the
report. However, the Committee is of the view that
further improvements could be made. For example, in
future, the report should have a brief introduction

covering other aspects of procurement reform,
including potential problems other than those identified
in the Assembly resolution.

3. The Advisory Committee notes that while the
information in the report relates to 2001 and the first
half of 2002, the information in annexes I and II to the
report does not go beyond 2001. The Committee
requests that, in future, the most up-to-date information
be included in the report.

4. The statistical data presented in the report of the
Secretary-General on the level of procurement from
developing countries demonstrates no significant
change in favour of vendors from those countries.
Moreover, in some cases it shows a real decline. The
total increase in procurement from developing
countries is limited to host countries of United Nations
peacekeeping operations and their neighbours.

5. However, the Advisory Committee notes the
efforts of the Secretariat to disseminate information
relating to procurement through its web site, letters to
permanent missions and business seminars and
briefings to increase procurement opportunities for
vendors from developing countries.



2
A/57/453

6. On the issue of the simplification of vendor
registration, the Advisory Committee was informed
that, while a provisionally registered vendor may
participate in the bidding process, the registration
process must be completed by that vendor before the
award of a contract since contracts are awarded only to
vendors listed in the United Nations register.
Nevertheless, the Committee expresses its concern
about provisional registration in that it might
introduce inequality in the way the companies that
wish to be registered with the United Nations are
treated. The Committee considers it important that
any vendor from any country have an equal
opportunity to register and that only fully
registered vendors who have received legal and
financial background scrutiny be awarded
contracts.

7. During the hearings, the Advisory Committee
found that the problem of delays in payments to
vendors remains chronic and that delays of two or three
months beyond the standard 30 days are still frequent.
The Committee considers it important to remedy
the situation.

8. The additional information provided to the
Advisory Committee indicated that the total
procurement for 2001 amounted to $854.4 million, out
of which $222 million, or 26 per cent, related to air
transportation services. The Committee notes that this
gross figure is inclusive of a number of purchases of
services, such as legal, insurance, travel and medical
services contracts, which were incorporated into the
statistics for the first time (see note 4 of the report).
The Committee was informed that, while air
transportation of personnel is still conducted only by
certified air operators, brokers are allowed to
participate in the air shipment of United Nations cargo.
According to the Procurement Division, the services of
brokers might be more efficient and less expensive.
The Committee was informed that out of $105.3
million spent to move United Nations cargo by air in
2000-2001, brokers provided services worth $8.3
million, or approximately 8 per cent, and the balance of
$97 million, or 92 per cent, of cargo airlifts was used
for certified air operators. The Committee cautions
that, despite the potential economic advantages of
using brokers, the safety of United Nations
personnel and the cargo they might be
accompanying is of paramount importance, as is
full compliance with established safety standards
and regulations.

9. On a related matter, the Advisory Committee
stresses the importance of ensuring that the
Procurement Manual is consistent with the Financial
Regulations and Rules of the United Nations.

Outsourcing practices

10. The report of the Secretary-General (A/57/185) is
submitted in compliance with the request made by the
General Assembly in paragraph 5 of its resolution
55/232 of 23 December 2000. The Advisory
Committee notes from the annex to the report that,
while the installation and maintenance of electronic
software has been outsourced at United Nations
Headquarters because technical skills are not readily
available, there is no reference to current practice at the
United Nations Office at Geneva, the Office of the
United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and
the United Nations Office at Vienna. The Committee
requests that this information be included in the
next report.

11. The Advisory Committee also requests that, in
future, whenever an activity is outsourced for
reasons of cost efficiency, the related saving should
be indicated.

Proposed measures to improve the
profitability of the commercial
activities of the United Nations

12. The report of the Secretary-General (A/57/398) is
submitted pursuant to General Assembly resolution
56/238 of 24 December 2001 in which the Secretary-
General was requested to submit to the Assembly at its
fifty-seventh session a single report containing
recommendations related to proposed measures to
improve the profitability of commercial activities of
the United Nations.

13. The Advisory Committee notes from paragraphs
8 and 9 of the report that, in the light of reports,
reviews and initiatives being prepared by the
Secretary-General that would have an impact on the
overall question of the commercial activities of the
Organization, the comprehensive recommendations
requested by the General Assembly would be submitted
in the context of its consideration of the programme
budget for the biennium 2004-2005.


