
United Nations A/57/772

 

General Assembly Distr.: General
4 April 2003

Original: English

03-31136 (E)    300403

*0331136*

Fifty-seventh session
Agenda item 126
Administrative and budgetary aspects of the financing
of the United Nations peacekeeping operations

Administrative and budgetary aspects of the financing
of the United Nations peacekeeping operations

Report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and
Budgetary Questions

Contents
Paragraphs Page

 I. Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1–6 3

 II. Report of the Board of Auditors. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7–18 4

Financial issues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 6

Peacekeeping Reserve Fund . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17 7

Inactive trust funds . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 7

III. Reports of the Secretary-General on the financing of peacekeeping operations . . . 19–142 7

Feasibility of consolidating accounts of the various peacekeeping operations. . . . . 20–28 7

Financial performance for 2001/02 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29–32 9

Flexibility. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33–35 9

Delegation of financial authority . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36 10

Results-based budgeting, objective-setting and presentation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37–56 10

Budget proposals for 2003/04. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57 14

Military and police personnel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58–59 14

Management of contingent-owned equipment arrangements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60–76 15

Civilian personnel matters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77–85 18



2
A/57/772

Resident investigators and auditors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86–95 20

Non-expendable equipment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96–99 23

Communication and information technology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 100–106 24

Air transportation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107–114 26

Insurance of vehicle fleet . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 115 27

Procurement and contract management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 116–122 28

Travel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 123–124 29

Bank charges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 125–126 30

Training . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 127–133 30

Miscellaneous supplies, services and equipment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 134–136 31

Death and disability benefits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 137–138 32

Liquidation of field missions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 139–141 32

Security . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 142 33

Annexes

 I. Training resources by peacekeeping component and financial period . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34

 II. Summary of mission security resources by peacekeeping operation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36



3
A/57/772

I. Introduction

1. During its meetings held from 4 February to 28 March 2003, the Advisory
Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions considered the financial
performance reports for the period from 1 July 2001 to 30 June 2002 and the
proposed budgets for the period from 1 July 2003 to 30 June 2004 of the
peacekeeping operations listed below. The Committee’s reports concerning the
specific peacekeeping operations are presented as addenda to the present report:

(a) United Nations Observer Mission in Georgia (UNOMIG)
(A/57/772/Add.1);

(b) United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara
(MINURSO) (A/57/772/Add.2);

(c) United Nations Mission in Sierra Leone (UNAMSIL) (A/57/772/Add.3);

(d) United Nations Peacekeeping Force in Cyprus (UNFICYP)
(A/57/772/Add.4);

(e) United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK)
(A/57/772/Add.5);

(f) United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL) (A/57/772/Add.6);

(g) United Nations Disengagement Observer Force (UNDOF)
(A/57/772/Add.7);

(h) United Nations Mission in Ethiopia and Eritrea (UNMEE)
(A/57/772/Add.8);

(i) United Nations Logistics Base at Brindisi, Italy and strategic deployment
stocks (A/57/772/Add.9);

(j) United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the
Congo (MONUC) (A/57/772/Add.10);1

(k) United Nations Transitional Administration in East Timor (UNTAET)
and United Nations Mission of Support in East Timor (UNMISET)
(A/57/772/Add.11).

2. The Advisory Committee considered the overview report of the Secretary-
General on the financing of the United Nations peacekeeping operations, covering
performance for the period from 1 July 2001 to 30 June 2002 and budget for the
period from 1 July 2003 to 30 June 2004 (A/57/723). That report is being submitted
for the first time and contains some of the material previously included in the
annexes to the general report of the Committee on peacekeeping operations.
Accordingly, the annexes which used to contain that information have not been
included in the present general report. Further comments of the Committee on the
Secretary-General’s overview report are set out in paragraph 42 below.

3. The Committee also considered the reports of the Secretary-General on the
following:

__________________
1 Includes the Committee’s observations on the Secretary-General’s progress report on the status

of the airfield services contract (A/57/756).



4
A/57/772

(a) Financial performance for the period from 1 July 2001 to 30 June 2002 of
the United Nations Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina (UNMIBH), including the
liaison offices in Belgrade and Zagreb and the United Nations Mission of Observers
in Prevlaka (UNMOP) (A/57/684); the related report of the Committee is contained
in document A/57/773;

(b) Financial performance for the period from 1 July 2001 to 30 June 2002
(A/57/725) and proposed budget for the period from 1 July 2003 to 30 June 2004 of
the support account for peacekeeping operations (A/57/732).

4. The comments, observations and recommendations of the Committee in the
paragraphs below also take into account its consideration of the reports of the
Secretary-General on the following:

(a) Death and disability benefits (A/C.5/56/41 and A/C.5/57/37) (see paras.
137 and 138 below);

(b) Write-off of contingent-owned equipment at liquidated missions
(A/C.5/56/43) (see paras. 60-76 below);

(c) Processing of claims for equipment contributed and self-sustainment
undertaken at peacekeeping missions (A/C.5/56/44) (see paras. 60-76 below);

(d) Reform of the procedure for determining reimbursement to Member
States for contingent-owned equipment (A/56/939) (see paras. 60-76 below);

(e) Practical aspects of wet-lease, dry-lease and self-sustainment
arrangements (A/57/397) (see paras. 60-76 below);

(f) Experience with resident investigators in peacekeeping operations
(A/57/494) (see paras. 86-95 below);

(g) Feasibility of consolidating the accounts of the various peacekeeping
operations (A/57/746) (see paras. 20-28 below).

5. The proposals of the Secretary-General on financial updates, financial
performance reports and disposition of assets with regard to a number of closed or
closing missions were not finalized in time for the Committee to consider them at its
winter meetings in 2003. The Committee is taking up those reports early in May
2003.

6. The Committee had a preliminary discussion on the United Nations Iraq-
Kuwait Observation Mission (UNIKOM). Owing to the circumstances prevailing in
the region, the Committee will not issue a report on UNIKOM at the present time. It
will revert to the matter when the situation has been clarified. The representatives of
the Secretary-General informed the Committee that they would provide an update in
May 2003. It is the intention of the Committee, before the end of May 2003, to issue
its report on the Secretary-General’s performance report for UNIKOM together with
recommendations on how to deal with requirements for the period after 1 July 2003.

II. Report of the Board of Auditors

7. The Advisory Committee has considered, in accordance with financial
regulation 12.11, the report of the Board of Auditors to the General Assembly on the
accounts of the United Nations peacekeeping operations for the financial period



5
A/57/772

ended 30 June 2002 (A/57/5, vol. II, chap. II)2. The audit coverage also included
two missions funded from the regular budget, one “political affairs mission” and the
United Nations Logistics Base. Annex I to the report contains the list of audited
missions. The Committee commends the Board for the quality of its report and
its streamlined format.

8. The Committee also had before it a report of the Secretary-General on the
implementation of the recommendations of the Board of Auditors concerning United
Nations peacekeeping operations for the period ending 30 June 2002
(A/57/416/Add.2). During its consideration of these matters, the Committee met
with the members of the Audit Operations Committee of the Board of Auditors. In
paragraphs 9 to 18 below, the Committee comments on a number of general issues
relating to the reports of the Board. The observations and recommendations of the
Committee on specific questions raised by the Board are set out where relevant in
the paragraphs of section III below which cover the reports of the Secretary-General
on peacekeeping operations.

9. The Committee notes that, in a number of instances, the Board of Auditors
expanded upon matters previously raised by the Committee in its reports on
peacekeeping operations. The Board indicates in its report (A/57/5, vol. II, chap. II,
para. 9) that it has reviewed the action taken by the Administration to implement its
recommendations for the period ended 30 June 2000 and confirms that, in general,
there are no significant outstanding matters. Details of the action taken by the
Administration on the recommendations of the Board for the period ended 30 June
2001 and the comments of the Board are contained in annex II to the report of the
Board.

10. The Committee exchanged views with the members of the Audit Operations
Committee on how best to report on follow-up action to implement previous
recommendations of the Board of Auditors. In its previous report (A/56/887,
para. 11), the Committee recommended that in reporting on follow-up action the
Board should focus on changes and results achieved in eliminating the shortcomings
it had identified, rather than merely stating whether a particular recommendation of
the Board had been implemented. The Committee had also requested (A/56/436,
para. 12) that the Board concentrate, in its reports on the implementation of its
recommendations, on indicating the extent to which such recommendations had been
implemented and on their impact. The Committee further commented that the
attainment of this manner of reporting would be facilitated considerably by the
extent to which the recommendations of the Board were clear, specific and capable
of being monitored in the implementation process with a view to measuring results
(A/56/887, para. 11).

11. The Committee is of the opinion that, to achieve this end, the information
in annex II to the report of the Board of Auditors should be incorporated into
the main body of the report in conjunction with the relevant subjects covered in
the audit. If the subject is not covered in the current reports, the Board can
always make reference to the implementation of its recommendations in the
introduction to its reports. Incorporation of information on follow-up into the
main body of the report would obviate the need for annex II, which could be
replaced by a short summary table at the beginning of the report. The table

__________________
2 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-seventh Session, Supplement No. 5 and

corrigendum (A/57/5 and Corr.5).



6
A/57/772

would, in caption form, list the recommendations of the Board with an
indication of the paragraphs in the body of the report where information on
follow-up action is provided.  The Committee exchanged views with the Audit
Operations Committee on how this could be accomplished, bearing in mind
that the Board has the authority to decide on the content and format of its
audit reports; the proposals of the Committee are intended to facilitate, further
streamline, and make the report of the Board more user-friendly.

12. In view of the wide scope of the Board’s mandate under financial regulation
12.5, including its role with regard to the administration and management of the
Organization, the Committee is of the opinion that, in future audit reports, the Board
should continue and place greater emphasis on efforts to determine whether the
resources of the audited administrations are being used efficiently and effectively.

13. The Committee exchanged views with the members of the Audit Operations
Committee on the workload of the auditors and was informed that for the period
from July 2000 to June 2002 approximately 2,000 auditor-weeks were used, and that
the Board issued 205 management letters, 28 audit reports and 3 special reports. For
2003, 150 audit missions were planned and the Board expects to increase the audit
manpower and the number of management letters by over 10 per cent, despite
limited resources, to ensure adequate coverage for the period from July 2002 to June
2004. In this connection the Committee recalls its intention to examine, in the
context of its consideration of the proposed programme budget for the biennium
2004-2005, the adequacy of the audit fee, as it affects the scope of coverage and the
quality of the audits (A/57/439, para. 13).

14. The Committee was informed that approximately 60 per cent of the audit
activity of the Board of Auditors would be carried out in the field offices and
peacekeeping missions. The Committee is of the opinion that the field work of
the Board would be considerably facilitated if the Secretariat and the Office of
Internal Oversight Services were to ensure that the internal audit function and
the resident audit capacity in peacekeeping missions were operating effectively
and efficiently. The Committee was informed that the resident audit capacity in
peacekeeping operations performed more work on management issues and less
on the financial audit. The Committee does not consider this to be a drawback
since the financial audit by the Board could be enhanced by an effective
management audit by internal auditors.

15. The Committee welcomes the close coordination and collaboration among the
three members of the Board and their audit teams in implementing audit plans and
joint audit activities. The Committee trusts that such coordination and collaboration
will continue to optimize the use of audit resources.

Financial issues

16. The report of the Board of Auditors deals with financial issues (A/57/5, vol. II,
chap. II, paras. 13-46). The Committee welcomes the fact that the cash position
of the active missions has improved and hence the ability of the United Nations
peacekeeping operations to meet their obligations has improved significantly as
compared with previous financial periods (ibid., para. 14).



7
A/57/772

Peacekeeping Reserve Fund

17. With regard to the Peacekeeping Reserve Fund (paras. 18-21 of the Board’s
report), the Committee notes that as at 30 June 2002 the level of the Fund was
$47.4 million higher than the approved level of $150.0 million, because of accrued
interest income.

Inactive trust funds

18. Under the question of inactive trust funds (see paras. 25-28 of the Board’s
report), it is reported that the two major trust funds, the Trust Fund to Support the
Multinational Force Deployed in East Timor and the Trust Fund in Support of
United Nations Peacemaking and Peacekeeping Activities, had balances of $77.4
million and $40.7 million, respectively, as at 30 June 2002. No further expenditures
are expected from those funds under their current mandates. As indicated in the
Board’s report (para. 27), the Administration intends to appoint a staff member to
pursue, on a full-time basis, the closure of inactive trust funds. The Committee
expects that this staff member will be financed from income generated by
programme support costs charged to trust funds. The Committee also requests
that the Administration establish effective interaction with donor Member
States for the disposition of inactive trust fund assets. In this regard the
General Assembly may wish to request the Member States concerned to
respond promptly to the Secretariat on this matter. The Secretary-General is
requested to complete the task of closing inactive trust funds within a
reasonable time.

III. Reports of the Secretary-General on the financing of
peacekeeping operations

19. In examining the reports of the Secretary-General, the Advisory Committee
has paid particular attention to issues of budget preparation, budget implementation,
monitoring and control. In the context of the present presentation, the Committee
has also paid attention to adequate explanation of budget performance changes and
proposed budget estimates. The comments of the Committee on general issues
applicable to most peacekeeping operations can be found, where relevant, in the
discussion on individual objects of expenditure and management issues in the
paragraphs below. As indicated in paragraph 8 above, the Committee has also taken
into account the Board’s findings and recommendations on these matters.

Feasibility of consolidating accounts of the various peacekeeping operations

20. The report of the Secretary-General on the feasibility of consolidating the
accounts of the various peacekeeping operations (A/57/746) was submitted pursuant
to paragraph 10 of General Assembly resolution 56/293.

21. While pointing out that the consolidation of the accounts of various
peacekeeping operations is not compatible with the current financial practice
(A/57/746, para. 4), the report contains an analysis of a range of issues that would
need to be taken into account before any consolidation could be implemented.

22. The consolidation of the accounts of peacekeeping operations would entail the
following:



8
A/57/772

(a) A single resolution of the General Assembly on the financing of
peacekeeping operations, including the support account for peacekeeping operations
and the United Nations Logistics Base at Brindisi, each operation constituting a
section, as is the case for the regular budget;

(b) Assessments would be de-linked from the continuation of Security
Council mandates and there would be only one peacekeeping assessment on Member
States at the beginning of the fiscal period covering all peacekeeping operations.

23. As indicated in the report of the Secretary-General, the options before the
General Assembly, briefly stated, are as follows:

(a) To consolidate all accounts retroactively;

(b) To consolidate all accounts prospectively;

(c) To consolidate the accounts of active peacekeeping operations only, and
to do so prospectively.

24. The Committee points out that any of those actions would require revision of
the Financial Regulations and Rules of the United Nations. In addition:

(a) If all accounts were consolidated retroactively, the General Assembly
would have to consider the impact of the consolidation on the application of
Article 19 of the Charter of the United Nations in this context, as well as in the case
of Member States specified in decision 49/470 of 23 December 1994;

(b) If the accounts of active peacekeeping missions only were consolidated,
prospectively, the General Assembly would need to consider transitional measures
to provide the missions with sufficient cash to cover their operating expenses from
the date of consolidation until the receipt of new assessment; it would also be
necessary to prioritize the settlement of liabilities, since cash resources might not be
available to meet liabilities related to the periods prior to consolidation.

25. The Committee notes the phased approach outlined in the Secretary-General’s
report (A/57/746, paras. 13-20) whereby, as a first step, the accounts of the active
peacekeeping missions could be consolidated retroactively, separate accounts being
maintained for closed missions. According to the Secretary-General, this approach
would ensure that, going forward, Member States and the peacekeeping operations
would benefit from more efficient and flexible procedures for the financing of
peacekeeping operations while avoiding issues pertaining to closed missions.

26. According to the Secretary-General, this approach would streamline the budget
approval process for the United Nations and reduce the number of legislative
decisions required as well as the number of assessments; it would also facilitate
planning for Member States. The Committee was informed, upon enquiry, that the
most beneficial impact of the streamlined budgetary processes would be on the
workload of the Contributions Service of the Department of Management.

27. As acknowledged by the Secretary-General, the approach outlined in his
report is not compatible with current financial procedures required under the
Financial Regulations and Rules of the United Nations (see para. 21 above). In
particular, the Committee points out that the de-linking of assessments from
Security Council action on individual mandates (see para. 22 (b) above) may
create complications for some Member States which, in accordance with their



9
A/57/772

domestic legal requirements, require such Security Council action before they
can pay assessments.

28. In view of the policy considerations involved it would be for the General
Assembly to provide further guidance in this matter.

Financial performance for 2001/02

29. A summary of the financial performance of peacekeeping missions for the
period ending 30 June 2002 is given in the Secretary-General’s overview report
(A/57/723, table 3). Expenditures amounted to $2,548.5 million against
appropriations of $2,773.3 million gross, leaving an unencumbered balance of
$224.8 million, or 8.1 per cent of the appropriations. The figures include
expenditure of $9 million against a provision of $9 million for the United Nations
Logistics Base at Brindisi and an expenditure of $84.3 million against a provision of
$89.7 million for the support account for peacekeeping operations. For the preceding
period, from 1 July 2000 to 30 June 2001, expenditures amounted to $2,307.9
million against an appropriation of $2,566 million, resulting in an unencumbered
balance of $258.1 million, or 10.1 per cent of the appropriation (see A/56/887, para.
12).

30. In the various reports of the Secretary-General and the related reports of the
Advisory Committee, reasons have been given for the unencumbered balances. For
the period 2001/02, as in the previous period, the high level of unencumbered
balances reflects significant implementation difficulties. The Committee has taken
these unencumbered balances into account when making its recommendations
on budget requirements for the period 2003/04.

31. Total unliquidated obligations for the period from 1 July 2001 to 30 June 2002
as at 31 December 2002 amounted to $309.1 million, comprising $212.2 million
under Governments and $96.9 million under other. As at 28 February 2003
unliquidated obligations amounted to $221 million. Information provided to the
Committee on savings or cancellation of prior period obligations for the period
ended 30 June 2002 indicates a total of $81.7 million.

32. The Committee has noted in a number of missions that large amounts of
resources are regularly retained to meet obligations to vendors, staff and
others. Such retentions do not appear to have been determined after a vigorous
verification exercise. The Committee considers that the large amounts of
unliquidated obligations, as well as savings regularly realized on prior period
obligations, indicate a laxity in obligating funds and illustrate weaknesses in
budget implementation and monitoring. The Committee requests that efforts be
made to address these problems.

Flexibility

33. The Committee recalls its comments about the flexibility granted the
Secretary-General in administering appropriations for peacekeeping operations and
the intention of the Committee to monitor the use of that flexibility (see A/54/841,
para. 16, and A/56/887, paras. 18 and 19).

34. The Committee again noted numerous budget variances (savings or
overexpenditures), particularly for items in operational activities, with only a
generic explanation given in the documents or in the additional information



10

A/57/772

provided to the Committee. For example in 2001/02, under facilities and
infrastructure, the stated overexpenditure of approximately $4.3 million in MONUC
is in fact the net result of overexpenditures of approximately $12 million, partially
offset by underexpenditures; in UNMIK, a net underexpenditure of $912,300 under
facilities and infrastructure includes several large cost overruns. Little or no
explanation is given for these significant variances.

35. The Committee recommends that in the future overruns or savings be
fully explained in the additional information given to it, with specific
information on the circumstances which led to the savings or overruns in a
particular object of expenditure.

Delegation of financial authority

36. The Committee was informed that the Controller now allots the full mission
budgets to the chief administrative officers, broken into three categories, namely,
military, civilian and operational expenditures. Transfer of funds between the
categories requires the prior approval of the Controller. The Committee was also
informed that a new electronic funds monitoring tool had been developed to aid the
chief administrative officers and Headquarters to closely track expenditure.
However, the Committee was informed that the system had only recently been
deployed in all the missions. The Committee trusts that, when the delegation of
authority in budget implementation to the chief administrative officers has
been effected and monitoring tools are in place at Headquarters and in the
field, questions raised by the Committee concerning the analysis of budget
implementation will be answered promptly.

Results-based budgeting, objective-setting and presentation

37. The Committee exchanged views with representatives of the Secretary-
General, both from Headquarters and the field, regarding the results-based
budgeting format used in the preparation of the proposed budgets for 2003/04 and
the performance reports for 2001/02 of the peacekeeping missions, in accordance
with General Assembly resolution 55/220 C. In its consideration of the matter, the
Committee also had before the comments of the Board of Auditors (A/57/5, vol. II,
chap. II, paras. 70-80), and the overview report of the Secretary-General (A/57/723).
In addition, the Committee recalls its own comments on the format and presentation
of the proposed budget for the support account for peacekeeping operations for
2002/03, which was submitted using the results-based budgeting format (A/56/941,
paras. 7-15).

38. The format for the proposed budgets for the period from 1 July 2003 to 30
June 2004 comprises five sections: mandate and planned results, resource
requirements, analysis of variances, actions to be taken by the General Assembly
and summary of follow-up actions to implement the recommendations of the
Advisory Committee, the Board of Auditors and the Office of Internal Oversight
Services. The section on mandate and planned results, in most cases,3 includes four
components — political, military, civilian police and support — linking the overall
objective, taken from the relevant Security Council resolution, to planned results.

__________________
3 No political component has been included in the cases of UNDOF, UNIFIL and UNIKOM.



11

A/57/772

Each component contains a set of expected accomplishments, indicators of
achievement for expected accomplishments and planned outputs.

39. The performance reports for the period from 1 July 2001 to 30 June 2002
follow a similar format; however, as noted in the overview report of the Secretary-
General (A/57/723, para. 5), the budgets for the period did not include standard
frameworks for objective-setting, which would have provided a baseline against
which performance could be measured and reported. Therefore a transitional format,
showing actual accomplishments and outputs against generic indicators and output
types, is utilized.

40. The Committee welcomes the initial efforts made to streamline the
presentation. The Committee also commends the Secretariat for the timeliness
with which it submitted the reports and the supplementary information to the
Committee. The Committee makes suggestions for further improvements in the
paragraphs below.

41. The Committee notes, as indicated in the report of the Board of Auditors
(A/57/5, vol. II, chap. II, para. 76) that senior management and key personnel of
missions have taken a leading role in setting objectives and compiling proposed
budgets. The Committee had stressed the importance of this (A/56/887, para. 26).
The results-based budgeting exercise still appears to the Committee to be
primarily Headquarters-driven, however. While the system remains relatively
new, systematic training and coaching should be continued and more focused to
ensure a coherent and comprehensive understanding and commitment to
results-based budgeting in all the missions.

42. The Committee welcomes the provision, as part of the new format, of an
overview report of the Secretary-General (A/57/723), which follows up on some of
the issues raised by the Committee in its general reports. In the view of the
Committee, the report should in the future be more comprehensive and should
include such cross-cutting issues as air operations, procurement and inventory
management, so as to address the numerous problems identified in the reports
of the Board of Auditors, the Committee and others. The subjects covered in
the overview could change from year to year, depending on the currency of
such topics.

43. The Committee recommends that, in future, for each mission, the
Secretariat should combine the performance report on the most recently
completed period and the proposed budget in a single document. The
Committee has further streamlined its current reports on peacekeeping
financing by combining comments on performance with comments and
recommendations on the proposed estimates.

44. The intention of the Secretary-General, as stated to the Committee in the
presentation made by his representatives, is that the new budget format will improve
decision-making and permit the General Assembly to focus on policy issues rather
than details. That being the case, the Committee requests that the Secretary-
General clearly indicate those policy issues which require the attention of the
General Assembly.

45. The Committee notes that, in the effort to streamline the document, the
introductory paragraphs, which in previous reports had provided a brief
background and overview, and reference to the mandate implementation plan,



12

A/57/772

if applicable, have been eliminated. It is the opinion of the Committee that
those paragraphs were useful, aiding the reader in navigating the text that
followed. The Committee requests that in future reports such introductory
information be reinstated.

46. With regard to mandates and objective-setting, the Committee notes that, in the
presentation of budgets for the period 2003/04, rather than dealing with the narrower
question of setting management objectives, the approach has been broadened, the
mandates of the Security Council forming the basis for the objectives. The Security
Council establishes peacekeeping mandates and, on the basis of proposals of the
Secretary-General in his budget documents, the General Assembly authorizes
resources to implement those mandates. Accordingly, any attempt to define
mandate objectives in budget documents must be in strict compliance with the
mandates established by the Security Council.

47. In the opinion of the Committee, with the exception of the support
component, the number of expected accomplishments, indicators of
achievement and planned outputs in the proposed budgets, in general, is high
and should be reduced in order to facilitate monitoring and reporting (see
paras. 49-51 below).

48. The Committee recalls its earlier observations (A/56/887, paras. 25 and 26).
Bearing in mind that each mission is different, it is the opinion of the
Committee, that the attempt to a have a uniform framework for all missions
comprising three or four components (political,3 military, civilian police and
support) has led to anomalies in some missions where activities for internally
displaced persons, public information programmes, mine clearance, human
rights programmes and quick-impact projects have all been grouped together
under the political component. In the view of the Committee, it might be
appropriate for some missions, depending on their mandate, to have additional
components. The Committee requests that, in the next submission, the
Secretary-General explain the rationale for the components that have been
used to prepare the budgets. Furthermore, the mandate implementation plan
should constitute the framework for budget preparation and performance
reporting. The contents of the introductory paragraphs in section I, which deal
with mandate performance in the performance report and with mandate and
planned results in the proposed budget, should be drafted so as to establish a
clear link between the results-based framework and the existing mandate plan
(see also para. 46 above).

49. The Committee emphasizes the importance of drafting the expected
accomplishments, indicators of achievement and planned outputs under each of
the components in such a way as to ensure that they are, in fact, relevant and
realistic. For example, it is not reasonable to expect that the United Nations can
ensure compliance with an agreement between parties, which has been set as an
expected accomplishment under the military component for a number of missions. A
more credible expectation would be for the United Nations to monitor and
encourage compliance and to alert the international community to non-compliance.
The Committee recalls that in its report of 9 May 2002 on the support account for
peacekeeping operations it stressed that budget presentation should be realistic, and
define objectives and expected accomplishments, which must be attainable in the
context of the services required of the peacekeeping operation concerned (A/56/941,



13

A/57/772

para. 11). The Committee finds the use of the past tense to describe planned outputs
perplexing.

50. The Committee is of the opinion that the support component, which deals
with operational costs, should include plans to increase efficiency and
productivity by improving support services. It is not very useful for the
purposes of budget review and follow-up to be informed, for example, that
vehicles will be maintained. Given the expected accomplishment of “increased
efficiency and effectiveness in supporting the mission”, which was chosen in all
of the proposed budgets, the Committee would have expected to be informed
about proposed measures to improve the use, management and control of
vehicles in the mission and whether there are replacement plans, the
implementation of which the Committee could follow up on during the next
review of the performance report or budget estimates.

51. The Committee shares the concerns of the Board of Auditors (see A/57/5,
vol. II, chap. II, para. 78) that not all missions have established well-developed
tools to measure, monitor and evaluate actual performance against the
objectives set out in the proposed results-based programme budgets. Upon
enquiry, the Committee was informed that the Department of Peacekeeping
Operations was in the process of designing a questionnaire to capture and collect
data regarding the experience of missions in the implementation of results-based
budgeting. A workshop was to be held in July 2003, and the expectation was that a
summary of the responses to the questionnaire would be made available to the
missions at that time. The Committee observes that, given the current budget cycle
for peacekeeping operations, which begins on 1 July, the timing of the workshop and
the provision of a summary of feedback data at that time could present problems and
lead to the submission of yet another set of transitional performance reports.

52. The resource requirements in section II of the budget proposals follow three
broad classifications, namely: military and police personnel, civilian personnel, and
operational costs. The requests for resources have not been linked to outputs and
accomplishments, however. As the Committee has stated in the past with regard to
results-based budgeting for the regular budget, such a linkage is an essential element
of the results-based budgeting concept.4 The Committee also recalls its statement
that “attempts should be made to link objectives with resources and to demonstrate
how resources provided for administration, management, security and other areas
contributed to achieving the administrative and managerial objectives of the
missions” (A/56/887/Add.1, para. 26). The Committee expects marked
improvement in this regard in the next round of budget submissions.

53. The Committee requests that future financial resource tables include
subtotals for each of the three classifications mentioned in the previous
paragraph.

54. The Committee found the supplementary information initially provided to
it to be seriously lacking in many respects. Although the Committee eventually
received most of the information it requested, it is pursuing the matter with the
Secretariat so as to ensure that it is provided with the level of information
foreseen in the streamlined approach.

__________________
4 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-sixth Session, Supplement No. 7 (A/56/7),

para. 12.



14

A/57/772

55. In order to avoid duplication of reporting, the information on follow-up
actions taken to implement recommendations of the Advisory Committee, the
Board of Auditors and the Office of Internal Oversight Services contained in
section V of the proposed budgets should be incorporated into the narratives of
the main document. A summary table should precede the budget, either as part
of the introduction or immediately following it, to replace the one now found at
the end of the document. It would differ from the table currently provided in
that it would not reproduce the texts of recommendations; rather, it would
refer to those recommendations in caption form and indicate the relevant
paragraphs in the body of the report where action taken to implement the
recommendations is discussed.

56. The Committee points out that, in the budget submissions for 2003/04,
information on standard and mission-specific costs is missing. The Committee
did not receive the Standard Cost Manual. The Committee was informed that,
since the Manual had not been revised regularly to take into account past
experience, its value had diminished. The Committee was further informed that
in some missions, such as UNMIK, the estimates were prepared on the basis of
average costs for the mission as the information in the Manual was no longer
applicable and would have led to overestimates; in other missions, however, the
Committee was informed that the use of standard costs would have led to
insufficient funds being budgeted for the period 2003/04. The Secretariat
informed the Committee that the Manual was being revised and updated to
improve its usefulness.

Budget proposals for 2003/04

57. As shown in the Secretary-General’s overview report (A/57/723, table 7), the
total estimated budgetary requirements for the period 2003/04, as proposed by the
Secretary-General in the reports for each peacekeeping operation submitted to the
Committee, amount to $2,181.8 million, as compared with appropriations of
$2,606.5 million for the period 2002/03 or 16.3 per cent lower than the amount
appropriated in the prior period. The figures include the provision of $23.3 million
for 2003/04 for the United Nations Logistics Base at Brindisi, as compared with
$14.3 million for 2002/03 and the provision of $115.9 million for 2003/04 for the
support account, as compared with $100.9 million for 2002/03. A breakdown of the
proposed budgets for 2003/04 by peacekeeping operation and major category of
expenditure is shown in the note by the Secretary-General (A/C.5/57/34/Rev.1,
annex).

Military and police personnel

58. The Committee notes that the estimates for military and police personnel for
the period 2003/04 amount to $892.6 million (see A/C.5/57/34/Rev.1, annex). The
Committee notes that there has been a redistribution of the costs for military and
police personnel between objects in the current presentation as compared with
previous budgets. This redistribution has made it difficult to compare trends in
objects of expenditure.

59. The Committee noted that UNMIBH was able to obtain civilian police more
readily than hitherto and that the actual vacancy rate was lower than that used in the
budget estimates. The Committee was informed that there had been greater support



15

A/57/772

from police-contributing countries; agreement had also been obtained to train police
personnel before deploying them to the mission area, thus reducing previous
instances of police being disqualified upon arrival for mission duty. The Committee
recommends that the lessons learned from this experience should be
disseminated to other missions with a similar police component in their
mandates.

Management of contingent-owned equipment arrangements

60. The observations and recommendations of the Committee set out below, on
matters relating to contingent-owned equipment and memoranda of understanding
with troop-contributing countries, take into account the observations of the Board of
Auditors (A/57/5, vol. II, chap. II, paras. 47-67). The Committee also considered the
reports of the Secretary-General on the write-off of contingent-owned equipment at
liquidated missions (A/C.5/56/43), the processing of claims for equipment
contributed and self-sustainment undertaken at peacekeeping missions
(A/C.5/56/44), the reform of the procedure for determining reimbursement to
Member States for contingent-owned equipment (A/56/939) and the practical
aspects of wet-lease, dry-lease and self-sustainment arrangements (A/57/397). The
reports were prepared pursuant to requests in General Assembly resolutions 56/241,
55/238, 55/271 and 55/274, respectively. The Committee requests that in the
future the issues relating to contingent-owned equipment and memoranda of
understanding be dealt with in the overview report.

61. The Committee notes that contingent-owned equipment issues have once again
been reviewed by the Board of Auditors, in all aspects as it had previously
recommended. The new arrangements have simplified considerably the method for
determining amounts to be reimbursed and the procedure for processing claims. The
Committee however reiterates its view (see A/56/887, para. 34) that there are serious
flaws in the management of the new arrangements. In its current report the Board
continues to highlight persistent intractable problems in the conduct of inspections
and the transmittal and processing of verification reports in compliance with the
requirements of the Contingent-owned Equipment Manual (A/57/5, vol. II, chap. II,
paras. 58-61; see also paras. 70-72 below). Although pre-deployment inspection is
not mandatory, it is an important proactive verification control mechanism whose
value cannot be underestimated. As indicated in the Board’s report (para. 55), there
is however no consistency in pre-deployment inspection.

62. Regarding staff and expertise capacity, the Board and the Committee have
strongly urged the Secretariat to take action to ensure that the United Nations has
the capacity in the field to manage the contingent-owned equipment system (see
A/56/5, vol. II, chap. II, para. 79;5 A/57/5, vol. II, chap. II, paras. 64-65; and
A/56/887, para. 36). As indicated in the Board’s current report (para. 66), the
Department of Peacekeeping Operations is still seized of the matter. Bearing in
mind the importance of the subject, farther progress needs to be made by the
Administration on this matter.

63. In view of the Board’s findings, the Committee stresses the importance of
further review by the Board of such issues as memoranda of understanding,

__________________
5 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-sixth Session, Supplement No. 5.



16

A/57/772

pre-deployment inspections, arrival inspections, and verification reports and
personnel resources.

64. With regard to memoranda of understanding, the Committee notes that, as at
30 April 2002, a total of 214 had been signed, of which only 8, or 4 per cent, had
been signed before deployment (A/56/939, para. 14). In its report (paras. 51 and 52),
the Board of Auditors indicated that, as at 31 August 2002, a total of 230 (93 per
cent) out of 246 memoranda of understanding had been signed and 222 (96.5 per
cent) of the 230 had been signed after the deployment of contingent-owned
equipment and troops, and that on the average the memoranda were signed three
months after deployment.

65. The Committee is aware that considerable administrative expenditures can
arise from delays in the approval and signing of memoranda of understanding and
status-of-forces agreements. The Committee has indicated that these are essential
instruments for defining the rights and obligations of the missions in the operational
area (A/56/887, para. 28). These instruments provide inter alia the legal framework
that governs the relationships between the United Nations and troop-contributing
countries in the provision of equipment, service and personnel. The Committee
notes that from the very inception these important instruments have been
fraught with problems and delays, however. The Committee remains concerned
that the United Nations is often forced to start mission operations without these
instruments in place.

66. The Committee recognizes the need to streamline the process involved in
the negotiation and approval of memoranda of understanding. In the view of
the Committee, there are just too many steps in the handling of the memoranda
(24 steps are shown in A/56/939, annex I). These should be reduced, with a view
to signing the memoranda before deployment. The Secretariat should analyse
the experience and make suggestions for possible changes for the next meeting
of the Working Group on Reimbursement of Contingent-owned Equipment in
February 2004.

67. The reports of the Secretary-General on the reform of the procedure for
determining reimbursement to Member States for contingent-owned equipment
(A/56/939) and on the practical aspects of wet-lease, dry-lease and self-sustainment
arrangements (A/57/397) address the need for streamlining the contingent-owned
equipment procedures.

68. The Committee notes that, since the implementation of the new methodology
for contingent-owned equipment, 298 contingent units have been deployed in 23
peacekeeping operations, of which almost all have been negotiated under the wet-
lease arrangements (see A/57/397, summary). Under the wet-lease arrangements, the
cost of major equipment is based on the standard rates, while the estimated cost of
self-sustainment is determined by the standard rate multiplied by the troop strength
deployed. In cases where troop-contributing countries are requested to deploy under
dry-lease arrangements (fewer than 5 per cent), the Secretariat has negotiated with
other troop-contributing countries to provide the maintenance.

69. In the report (A/57/397, para. 12), it is indicated that in many cases the
equipment negotiated in memoranda of understanding with troop-contributing
countries is not the same as what is actually deployed. The issues relating to changes
in both quantity and type of major equipment are dealt with in that report (paras. 12-



17

A/57/772

16) and actions taken with regard to pre-deployment inspections are discussed in
both reports (A/56/939, paras. 15 and 16, and A/57/397, paras. 26 and 27). In this
regard, the Committee recognizes the importance of pre-deployment
inspections, which not only improve the content of the memoranda of
understanding and reduce the possibility of variances in equipment and self-
sustainment but also improve claims processing. The Committee was informed
that the pre-deployment inspections would become mandatory. The Committee notes
that, in particular, a troop-contributing country participating in a peacekeeping
operation for the first time under the contingent-owned equipment methodology
and/or deploying a particular type of unit for the first time would be required to
receive a visit from a pre-deployment team.

70. The reports deal with the matter of shortfalls in self-sustainment (A/56/939,
paras. 23-25, and A/57/397, paras. 17-25) and address the issue of the capacity of
troop-contributing countries to meet the requirements of contingent-owned
equipment (A/56/939, paras. 17 and 18, and A/57/397, paras. 28 and 29). Two
reports prepared by mission personnel in the mission area are considered critical in
this regard. The first, the arrival and inspection report, permits the review of the
actual quantity, quality and type of equipment deployed to the mission area against
the signed or draft memorandum of understanding or, where applicable and if the
latter is not available, against the pre-deployment inspection report; the second, the
verification and/or operating readiness report, provides the mechanism by which the
Secretariat ascertains the effectiveness of a troop contributor in meeting the
operational requirements of a mission and satisfying the terms of the memorandum
of understanding.

71. The Committee welcomes the suggestions (see A/56/939, paras. 17 and 18,
and A/57/397, paras. 28 and 29) on streamlining the production and processing
of verification reports, including steps taken to implement electronic
submission of reports. The Committee trusts that a reduction in the frequency
of reporting requirements will not affect the completion and quality of the
reports and consequent certification and payment of reimbursement for
contingent-owned equipment claims.

72. The Committee recommends that the Secretariat set out the experience
gained so far and make suggestions for any modification to the current
reporting cycle to the Working Group on Reimbursement of Contingent-owned
Equipment at its forthcoming meetings, scheduled for February 2004 (see
A/57/397, paras. 11 and 25). If it is considered that monthly reporting is too
laborious and potentially inefficient, alternative reporting cycles should be
suggested subject to the necessity of ensuring that the services contracted for in
the memoranda of understanding are provided to the United Nations in a
timely manner and that prompt processing of claims and reimbursement to
troop-contributing countries is not in any way compromised (see para. 76
below).

73. The Committee notes that, taking into account the life cycle of claims
processing and in view of the concerns raised by Member States with regard to
timeliness of reimbursement for contingent-owned equipment, steps have been taken
to streamline the process (A/56/939, paras. 27 and 28). The Committee notes that,
for example, standard operating procedures have been drafted in the areas of claims
policy, procedures and processing (A/57/397, para. 37). The Committee trusts that



18

A/57/772

these measures will contribute to improving the timeliness of certification of claims.
With regard to the progress report on the processing of claims for equipment
contributed and self-sustainment undertaken at peacekeeping operations
(A/C.5/56/44), upon enquiry, the Committee was informed that the plan to process
all claims for major equipment and self-sustainment with a turnaround period of
three months from the date of receipt would be implemented in June 2003. The
Committee looks forward to the implementation of this plan. In addition, all
efforts should continue to be made for early reimbursement of troop costs and
amounts held under accounts payable, subject to availability of funds.

74. The report on the write-off of contingent-owned equipment at liquidated
missions (A/C.5/56/43) indicates progress achieved on the issue of finalizing the
certification of write-off claims from some liquidated peacekeeping operations.
Efforts were targeted at completing the processing by the end of 2002 (ibid.,
para. 9). The Committee notes that, whether the write-off case is a reimbursement or
a recovery, the concurrence of the troop-contributing country is required prior to
certification of the write-off amount (ibid., para. 6 (c)). As shown in annex I to the
report, as at April 2002 the amount awaiting concurrence from troop-contributing
countries was $16.4 million and the amount certified or in accounts payable was
$7.3 million. The Committee was provided with updated information in the context
of the presentation of the peacekeeping-related budgets for the period 2003/04. At
28 February 2003, amounts awaiting concurrence from troop contributors amounted
to $6 million and amounts under certification or in accounts payable to $6.4 million.

75. The Committee notes that the complex, labour-intensive, time-consuming and
costly process involved, described in the report (A/C.5/56/43, paras. 1-6) is mostly
related to the old system for processing contingent-owned equipment and that this
should disappear with the implementation of the new related procedures. The
Committee believes that those countries not yet in the new contingent-owned
equipment arrangement should be encouraged to enter into it (see A/C.5/56/44,
para. 5). The Committee understands that, if this were done, the write-off
phenomenon would cease.

76. The Committee notes that most of the issues relating to the practical
aspects of the contingent-owned equipment methodology would be
recommended for inclusion in the agenda of the next session of the Working
Group on Reimbursement of Contingent-owned Equipment, in February 2004.
The Committee is of the opinion that, in view of the policy and management
issues involved, the Secretariat should prepare a comprehensive paper,
including appropriate input data, to facilitate and focus the work of the
Working Group. The Committee further recommends that, on the basis of
recommendations of the Working Group, the Secretariat prepare a
comprehensive report on the issues that would require legislative action by the
General Assembly.

Civilian personnel matters

77. It is proposed to establish seven posts for deputy military commanders for the
following missions: UNOMIG, UNMISET, UNIKOM, UNFICYP, UNIFIL, UNDOF
and MINURSO (A/57/723, para. 19). Notwithstanding the fact that similar posts
currently exist in MONUC, UNAMSIL and UNMIK, the Committee was not



19

A/57/772

convinced by the explanations put before it and does not, at this stage,
recommend approval of these requests.

78. With regard to the findings and observations of the Board of Auditors on
human resources management (A/57/5, vol. II, chap. II, paras. 172-187), the
Committee points out that, despite many statements of intention to improve
recruitment and placement in the Department of Peacekeeping Operations and
peacekeeping field missions, delays and deficiencies continue to plague
recruitment and placement activities. The Committee recalls that the Office of
Internal Oversight Services indicated (see A/57/224) that the average
recruitment time frame for filling regular vacancies in the Department was 362
days and the recruitment time for filling new vacancies that were authorized on
an emergency basis by the General Assembly in its resolution 55/238 was 264
days. The Committee points out that these figures should be compared with the
targeted time frame of a maximum period of 120 days for filling vacancies
indicated in the Secretary-General’s report on human resources management
reform. The Committee has commented further on the unacceptable continuing
problem of delays in the recruitment of personnel in the Department of
Peacekeeping Operations in its report on the budget for the support account
for the period 2003/04 (see A/57/776, para. 28).

79. The Committee was informed that, when the new staff selection system
(Galaxy) is implemented, the targeted time frame for filling vacancies in
peacekeeping operations will be reduced. The target is the reduction from 180 to 95
days in the time from the posting of the vacancy announcement to the recruitment
and entry on duty of the selected candidate (A/57/723, para. 21). In this regard, the
Committee recommends that the General Assembly consider establishing a
procedure whereby any post that becomes vacant or any new post that is
approved and is not filled within 12 months after it becomes vacant or is
approved shall be deemed to have lapsed.

80. The Committee notes that the new designation “national staff” now includes
both national professional officers and local staff (now referred to as general service
national staff). The Committee encourages greater use of national staff wherever
feasible and cost-effective. The Committee noted the practice of reassigning
national staff from one mission to another. For example, in UNIFIL, 47 national
staff were temporarily assigned to other missions. Upon request, the Committee was
provided with details concerning the skills of those staff members. The Committee
does not object to this practice since it can, on a temporary basis, provide
urgently needed skills at short notice, particularly in the start-up phase of new
missions. It cautions, however, that this does not obviate the need for missions
to recruit such staff on their own to replace borrowed staff as quickly as
possible. The Committee will revert to this matter in the context of its
examination of the report of the Secretary-General on the future of Field
Service officers. The Committee recalls that it requested the Secretary-General
to expedite the completion of the review of the Field Service category and to
submit his comprehensive proposals in this regard to the General Assembly at
its fifty-eighth session, as recommended by the Joint Inspection Unit (A/57/434,
para. 4). The Committee intends to follow up on this matter in the context of its
consideration of peacekeeping budgets in February 2004.



20

A/57/772

81. The Committee notes that considerable underexpenditure for the period
2001/02 in the civilian personnel component of some missions resulted from
recruitment of international staff at grades lower than those approved in the
authorized staffing table of the missions (e.g., UNMIK). Upon enquiry, the
Committee was informed that the staff members recruited at lower levels were
performing to the satisfaction of the mission officials. The Committee is of the
view that when posts are consistently filled at lower levels in missions with
limited duration, the level of the higher graded posts should be reviewed and
reclassified accordingly.

82. The Committee intends to follow up on the findings and recommendations of
the Board of Auditors on assignment of staff and grading of posts in UNTSO and
UNMOGIP (see A/57/5, vol. II, chap. II, paras. 178-187) in the context of its review
of the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2004-2005. The Committee
points out that the Board’s recommendation (ibid., para. 183) should be read in
conjunction with the Committee’s recommendation (A/56/887, para. 42) that
consideration should also be accorded to reviewing existing posts in order to
consider their abolition, redeployment or downward reclassification.

83. Upon request for clarification concerning delegation of authority for
recruitment, the Committee was informed that delegation of authority to initiate
recruitment of substantive staff had been granted, on a pilot project basis, to two
missions with a high volume of staff, namely, UNMISET and UNMIK. Pending
review of the results of the pilot project, limited delegation of recruitment up to
certain levels of staff would be considered on a mission-by-mission basis.

84. On the basis of its observation of visits to missions, the Committee has
concluded that, even when posts are provided to missions, recruitment delays and
departures lead to understaffing of mission units. In general, the Committee is of
the opinion that missions should have greater authority in the hiring and
management of staff. Missions need to plan and manage more carefully the
departure of staff, particularly heads of services, including the preparation of
handing-over notes. It is poor management to allow staff in critical services to
leave missions before ascertaining whether they can be replaced promptly.
There should be more collaboration among missions and between the missions
and Headquarters on this important issue, as well as on the important issue of
staff mobility between Headquarters and missions.

85. With respect to post reductions in missions being downsized, the Committee
noted that the description of staff changes in the budget proposals and in the
additional information given to the Committee often does not include the functional
analysis that had led to recommendations for the reduction or retention of posts. In
the view of the Committee a clear rationale should be provided in the future on
reductions, together with a functional justification in support of the posts to be
retained, in particular in administrative units of the missions. Post reductions in
missions of long standing, such as UNFICYP and UNIFIL, also entail the need to
consider termination indemnities for national staff; the Committee requested
information on guidelines developed thus far.

Resident investigators and auditors

86. The Committee considered the report of the Secretary-General on the
experience with resident investigators in peacekeeping operations (A/57/494), which



21

A/57/772

is submitted pursuant to the request of the Committee (A/56/887, para. 55) that the
Secretary-General prepare a report on the experience so far with resident
investigators, including proposals and plans for future review by the Committee in
the context of budgets for peacekeeping for the period starting 1 July 2003. The
Committee had discussions on the matter with the Under-Secretary-General for
Internal Oversight Services.

87. The report of the Secretary-General attempts to provide such analysis and
identifies pros and cons with respect to the use of mission-based investigators versus
regional investigators (A/57/494, paras. 14-26). It concludes that the use of regional
investigators would be the preferred option, based on considerations of geographic
proximity and timeliness (ibid., para. 26). The Office of Internal Oversight Services
would place regional investigators in Nairobi and either Geneva, where the Office
already has a presence, or Vienna, a location that is considered by the Office to have
well-established administrative support structures and which has direct air
transportation to many regions of the world, including peacekeeping mission areas
(ibid., para. 20). The OIOS proposes that 12 additional posts (2 P-5, 4 P-4, 4 P-3 and
2 General Service) be allocated to those regional hubs for the use of its
Investigations Division, so that the Office would have the capacity to respond to the
increasing caseload in peacekeeping operations (A/57/494, paras. 8 and 30).
Financing would be sought in the context of the provision of the support account for
peacekeeping operations for the period from July 2003 to June 2004, subject to
guidance by the General Assembly (ibid., para. 35).

88. With regard to the caseload in peacekeeping operations (see A/57/494, paras.
6-10 and 27-30), the Committee notes that, in the biennium 2000-2001, the Office of
Internal Oversight Services received a total of 311 peacekeeping cases — an average
of 156 cases per year — and, in the period from 1 January to 30 September 2002,
180 cases; the Office estimates that by the end of 2002 approximately 216 cases will
have been received in that year (ibid., para. 8). On the basis of the annual workload
estimates for the period from 2000 to 2002, the Office estimates that cases involving
peacekeeping matters average 176 per year; it also estimates that, as a working
average, 250 person-hours are required to conduct each investigation and produce a
report. Thus, to be able to handle this workload, the Office estimates that 44,000
hours of investigator time would be required (176 cases times 250 hours per
investigation), requiring approximately 24 investigators (A/57/494, paras. 28 and
29). At this stage, however, the Office of Internal Oversight Services proposes the
addition of 12 posts for the Investigations Division, as indicated in paragraph 87
above.

89. In view of the number of cases requiring investigation in some missions, the
Committee notes that, during the last biennium, the Office of Internal Oversight
Services placed mission-based (resident) investigators in UNMIK, UNTAET and
MONUC, using ad hoc funding, and that, currently, mission-based investigators are
located in only two missions, UNMIK and UNMISET, also funded on an ad hoc
basis (A/57/494, para. 15). The Committee recalls that these two missions are
implementing plans to downsize the mission operations.

90. The Committee notes that the Office is very pleased with the results of
mission-based investigation, especially with the ability of the team to handle large
and small matters in a more timely fashion and to provide mission management with
solutions (A/57/494, para. 14). The Committee is concerned that the



22

A/57/772

demonstrated growth in cases in the missions, discussed in the report (ibid.,
para. 10), may have resulted in part from an increasing number of
administrative management cases referred by mission management to
investigators of the Office of Internal Oversight Services. The Committee notes
the Office’s observation that many peacekeeping cases routinely remain on the
inactive list owing to a lack of resources necessary to conduct such
investigations (ibid., para. 18). In the Committee’s opinion, there is a need to
refine further the methodology for determining the cases to be investigated by
the Office, so that cases related to administrative management issues would be
investigated and resolved by the mission management itself in an expeditious
manner.

91. Subsequent to the hearings on the matter, the Committee was provided with
detailed explanations on the operational effectiveness and advantages of deploying
investigators in regional hubs. The Committee was informed that the proposal of the
Office of Internal Oversight Services as to the location of the regional hubs has been
reassessed against current caseload statistics. On the basis of this reassessment, the
Office proposes Nairobi and Vienna as the suitable locations for investigator
resources. Furthermore, the Office would provide the Committee with an update in
the spring of 2004 as to the benefits of retaining Nairobi and Vienna as regional
hubs, or recommendations as to which locations might be more suitable for the
placement of investigator resources in future years.

92. The Committee was also provided with clarification on the total number of
investigation posts of the Office of Internal Oversight Services, including posts in
peacekeeping missions, and the breakdown of the posts by source of funding. The
management of investigations conducted in peacekeeping missions is now being
done from New York. Currently, the Investigations Division has 27 posts (18 posts
in New York and 3 posts each in Geneva, Nairobi and the Tribunals). These posts
are funded from the regular budget, the support account for peacekeeping operations
and extrabudgetary resources, as shown in the table.

Posts in the Investigations Division of the Office of Internal Oversight Services

Regular budget
Support
accounta Special funding Extrabudgetary Totals

Location P GS P GS P GS P GS P GS

New York 10 4 2 1 - - - 1 12 6

Geneva 2 1 - - - - - - 2 1

Nairobi 2 1 - - - - - - 2 1

Tribunals - - - - 3 - - - 3 -

Total 14 6 2 1 3 - - 1 19 8

Note: P: Professional; GS: General Service.
a Comprises one P-5, one P-3 and one General Service post.

93. The Committee was informed that the P-5 post currently funded through the
support account is responsible for all liaisons with Department of Peacekeeping
Operations management at Headquarters and peacekeeping missions. The P-5 is the
manager of all investigations carried out in the peacekeeping sphere, including the



23

A/57/772

investigations carried out in UNMIK and UNMISET where resident investigators
are based. This includes the recruitment of investigators, case planning and
direction, finalization of reports of investigations, oversight of budgeted funds for
Department investigations and preparation of reports to the General Assembly. In
addition, a total of four resident investigators (3 in UNMIK and 1 in UNMISET)
were deployed through the redeployment of vacant posts, in the light of the
significant caseloads of those missions. While the Department of Peacekeeping
Operations administers these posts, the Office of Internal Oversight Services is
responsible for the identification and selection of candidates and for the
management of substantive issues in the exercise of its operational independence,
pursuant to General Assembly resolution 48/218 B. Resident investigators do not
report to mission management on substantive issues, except in cases where it is
imperative that the management is made aware of significant cases. The 10
investigator posts and 2 General Service posts proposed would replace the current
field-based staff as from 1 July 2003, should the Committee recommend approval of
these additional resources.

94. The Committee agrees that the regional investigation approach rather than the
mission-based approach would in most instances be the preferred option. The
Committee, at this stage, is not convinced, however, that all 12 additional posts
are required for investigation activities in peacekeeping missions. The
Committee’s detailed recommendations on the request for 12 resident
investigators are contained in its report on the budget for the support account
for the period 2003/04 (see A/57/776, paras. 64-66).

95. The Committee also reviewed the issue of resident auditors in peacekeeping
operations in the context of its review of the report of the Board of Auditors (see
also A/56/887, paras. 48-52). The Board’s report (A/57/5, vol. II, chap. II, paras. 94-
110) contains information on the implementation of the Board’s previous
recommendations on resident auditors. Of the seven recommendations contained in
the Board’s report for the financial period ended 30 June 2001, one recommendation
was fully implemented and six were under implementation (ibid., para. 96). The
Administration’s response (ibid., paras. 101 and 102) did not help the
Committee to assess whether the recommendations of the Board on the
capacity of the resident auditors to perform structured value-for-money and
information communication technology audits were being implemented or,
indeed, were implementable.

Non-expendable equipment

96. With regard to the Board’s findings and recommendations on non-expendable
equipment (A/57/5, vol. II, chap. II, paras. 29-35), the Committee expresses concern
about the Board’s finding that there have been delays in the disposal of equipment at
most missions for reasons that included heavy workloads, incorrect information or a
lack of information submitted to the Local Property Survey Boards and the non-
operation of the Boards (ibid., para. 33). Similarly, the Committee is concerned
about the other findings of the Board on inventory management, in respect of such
cases as:

(a) When procured equipment was not utilized for a number of years
(UNDOF and UNTSO) and damaged property items were not reported as required
by the Financial Regulations and Rules (UNDOF).



24

A/57/772

(b) When equipment procured for MONUC remained at the United Nations
Logistics Base for at least a year, a situation that called into question the need for
the equipment.

(c) When discrepancies identified during physical inventory checks at the
United Nations Logistics Base were not followed up.

(d) When UNAMSIL did not conduct periodic physical inventories at some
of its warehouses in 2002 and its Local Property Survey Board did not convene in
more than a year to discharge its responsibilities.

(e) When 54 per cent of the total value of items pending write-off in UNMIK
have been pending for more than six months and when UNMIK did not update the
field assets control system with attractive items valued at $26,762 that had been
stolen.

97. In view of the continuing problems in inventory management identified by the
Board of Auditors, the information provided by the Department of Peacekeeping
Operations on measures taken or to be taken to rectify the situation (A/56/5, vol. II,
chap. II, para. 35; and A/57/5, vol. II, chap. II, para. 35 and annex II, table A.2) does
not provide a clear picture of the progress and results achieved in the
implementation of the Board’s recommendations.

98. The Committee is concerned that despite similar weaknesses in inventory
management identified by the Board of Auditors in the past and except for the
limited progress in reconciling closing and opening inventory balances, no
progress appears to have been made in achieving efficiency in recording and
accounting for inventory and in the work of the Local Property Survey Boards.
The Committee stresses that problems in inventory management are
exacerbated by the apparent lack of accountability, vacancy situations and
rotation of staff, low priority given by missions to property inventory and by
the difficult operational conditions. Without clear knowledge of their inventory,
missions may very well request funds for additional purchases of assets they do
not require.

99. The Committee stresses that the volume and value of the Organization’s
inventory in peacekeeping operations (there were, for example, 10,792 vehicles
in the missions in December 2000) demand that greater attention be paid to
proper and effective recording and accounting and to achieving efficient
inventory management, including disposal of obsolete and unusable assets. The
Committee expects the Administration to inform the Board of Auditors of the
results achieved in the course of the implementation of the Board’s
recommendations on inventory management. The Committee also requests that
the Board ascertain whether changes have been made to remedy the
inefficiency and other weaknesses it has identified in this and previous audits.

Communication and information technology

100. The Committee notes that the estimates for communication and information
technology total $101 million for 2003/04, $68.3 million for communications and
$32.7 million for information technology (see A/C.5/57/34/Rev.1). The Department
of Peacekeeping Operations provides, through its Communications and Information
Technology Service, the delivery of voice, email and video, high-speed data system



25

A/57/772

and network services, and applications for all peacekeeping and Department-
administered operations in the field worldwide.

101. The Committee was informed of the progress in developing and implementing
communication and information technology projects involving the following nine
systems: (1) Field IMIS; (2) Galaxy; (3) Galileo; (4) Mercury; (5) Contingent-
owned Equipment; (6) Movement Control; (7) E-STARS Suite, comprising Team
Agenda, Mars, Department of Peacekeeping Operations Planner and Situation
Reports Repository; (8) Department of Peacekeeping Operations-Go Portal; and (9)
Funds Monitoring Tool. Information was requested on the status of these projects,
but it has not been provided.

102. The Committee commends the efforts of the Department of Peacekeeping
Operations and the field missions in developing communication and
information technology, as they are in concert with the Committee’s
observation on the need for modern information technology for the
management of peacekeeping operations (see A/56/887, para. 62). As
communication and information technology projects involve substantial capital
expenditure, the Committee recommends that all future requirements for both
new and replacement programmes be undertaken after comprehensive analysis
of the functional requirements of the field missions. Moreover, a clear time
frame for the completion of such projects should be indicated in the proposed
budget submission and the status of implementation of tasks performed should
be reflected in the performance report.

103. The Committee was informed that as a result of the efforts of the Department
of Peacekeeping Operations and field mission staff there had been an improvement
in such areas as accounting for equipment in field missions, workflow and electronic
transfer of reports. The Committee acknowledges that it is too early for much of
the work that was carried out in 2002 to be evaluated. The Committee points
out, however, that the productivity and efficiency realized so far are not readily
apparent. The Board of Auditors indicates (A/57/5, vol. II, chap. II) that on a
number of subjects, including property management, write-offs and the
working of Local Property Survey Boards, the full value of the Organization’s
investments in technology is yet to be realized in a comprehensive manner.

104. It appears from the information provided to the Committee on the nine
information technology systems in the Department of Peacekeeping Operations
that there is a lack of a comprehensive identification of needs, including a cost-
benefit analysis, and the requisite architecture.

105. The Committee detected a potential for duplication of databases, which
could complicate the work of programme managers and make it less efficient
for them to prepare accurate reports promptly without having recourse to a
multiplicity of difficult or inefficient interactive sources. The Committee had
requested (A/56/887, para. 62) that a review be made of the many databases
that had been or were being developed, with a view to ensuring that they are
compatible and interactive and that they can be used with optimal
effectiveness. There is no evidence that such a review has been undertaken.

106. The Committee recommends that the Secretariat, in the context of the
budgets of peacekeeping operations for 2004/05, should evaluate the cost-
benefit and the efficiency and productivity results of the information



26

A/57/772

technology systems of the Department of Peacekeeping Operations that will
have been implemented by the end of 2003 to ensure that the objectives sought
have been realized and to correct any weaknesses identified. The Committee
reiterates its caution (see A/56/887, para. 69) against an apparent tendency to
acquire the most up-to-date communication and data-processing equipment,
which may not be appropriate to the practical needs of the mission.

Air transportation

107. The report of the Board of Auditors deals with air operations (A/57/5, vol. II,
chap. II, paras. 81-93) and provides information on the implementation of the
previous recommendations of the Board on this matter (ibid., annex II, table A.2).
The Committee’s comments and recommendations on air operations are set out in its
previous report (A/56/887, paras. 64-68). The Committee notes that the estimates for
air transportation for the period 2003/04 amount to $270.5 million (see
A/C.5/57/34/Rev.1, annex).

108. The Committee also notes from the Board’s report (para. 82) that the number
of actual flying hours has risen from 28,000 in 1999 to 59,000 in 2001. The number
of planned flying hours is not available but the Committee has consistently found
overestimation under this object of expenditure. The Committee was informed that
air transportation expenditures increased from $59 million in 1994 to $158 million
in 2002. For the period 2003/04 provisions for air transportation are projected at
$264.8 million, excluding staff costs, air service contract costs and related
equipment costs (see A/C.5/57/34/Rev.1 for a breakdown of the estimates by
peacekeeping operation). In view of the sharp increase in air operation costs and
the Board’s findings (paras. 83 and 84 of its report), the Committee requests
that the Board ascertain whether an effective and adequate capacity is in place
in peacekeeping operations to plan, manage and monitor the configuration and
utilization of air assets. The Committee requests the Secretariat to examine and
clarify the various methods for costing block hours, together with the relative
merits of commercial hiring versus letter-of-assist arrangements. Furthermore,
the Committee has noted extensive variances in the missions between planned
flight hours and the hours actually flown. This experience should be taken into
account when contracting for air services.

109. The Committee was informed that the Board of Auditors did not carry out a
comprehensive compliance audit of air operations. The Committee recommends
that the Board, in its next audit, consider expanding its audit of air operations
using, where necessary, the services of specialists in the field to be audited.

110. As indicated of the Board’s report (A/57/5, vol. II, chap. II, para. 82), the ratio
of accidents to flying hours has increased from 0.71 in 1999 to 1.02 in 2001. The
Committee was informed, upon enquiry, that these ratios do not take account of air
incidents, although the related data is recorded and maintained in files. The
Committee requests that information on air incidents be provided in future
audit reports together with information on air accidents. Furthermore, the
Committee considers it important to ensure safety in air operations through, in
particular, the vendors’ pre-qualification exercise, technical evaluation by the
Department of Peacekeeping Operations of bids for air services, and regular
assessment of vendors’ performance.



27

A/57/772

111. The Committee welcomes the Board’s attention to the question of air safety.
The Committee considered the situation revealed by the Board to be unacceptable.
Despite the information on compliance provided in the report (ibid., para. 86), the
Committee is concerned about the Board’s finding that, by June 2002, four
recommendations on air safety, out of nine made by the Technical Cooperation
Bureau of the International Civil Aviation Organization in July 2000, had not been
implemented and that the remaining recommendations had been implemented only
partially (ibid., para. 83). The report contains information on common shortcomings
in air safety identified by the Aviation Safety Unit and the audit teams of the Board
of Auditors (ibid., para. 84). The Committee has regularly agreed with requests for
funding related to training, yet at the time of the audit insufficient training was
provided to aviation officers (ibid., para. 84 (a)).

112. The Committee is not satisfied with what appears to be an overly
bureaucratic approach of the Transport Unit of the Department of
Peacekeeping Operations to enforcing zero tolerance for alcohol, whereby the
Unit at the time of audit was exploring technical and administrative procedures
to ensure effective compliance with established regulations on the consumption
of alcohol by aircrews (ibid., para. 84 (f)). The Committee is of the view that,
given the existing stand and operating procedures, it does not appear that there
is much to explore: what is required is to enforce the relevant regulations on
zero tolerance for alcohol and hold those who contravene them fully
accountable.

113. The Committee recalls its previous comments and recommendations on
transportation of non-United Nations personnel and reimbursement for air
support services (see A/56/887, para. 66) and it considers, therefore,
unacceptable and unsatisfactory the Administration’s reply that in order to
monitor the activities of missions with respect to the transportation of non-
mission personnel or cargo, all missions have been directed to submit monthly
reports (see A/57/5, vol. II, chap. II, para. 89). The Committee is of the view
that, to avoid micromanagement by the Department of Peacekeeping
Operations at Headquarters, field missions should have full authority to
establish mechanisms for such reimbursements after receiving appropriate
guidelines from the Department.

114. In the view of the Committee, the apparent lack of information given to
the auditors on whether the extension of contracts was always subject to the
prior completion of vendor performance evaluation is a very serious matter.
Indeed, with respect to the airfield services contract for MONUC, some of the
findings of the Board (ibid., para. 91) appear to the Committee to put into
serious question the justification to readily agree to renew the contract.

Insurance of vehicle fleet

115. The Committee points out that the Board’s findings about the discrepancies in
vehicle fleet counts (see A/57/5, vol. II, chap. II, para. 113) confirm the
Committee’s recommendations on inventory management. With regard to
insurance of the vehicle fleet in peacekeeping operations, the Committee
welcomes the Board’s recommendations, in particular the recommendation to
conduct a cost-benefit analysis as a basis for taking a decision on the
alternative risk-financing programmes.



28

A/57/772

Procurement and contract management

116. The Board of Auditors dealt with issues of procurement and contract
management (see A/57/5, vol. II, chap. II, paras. 117-139) and identified problems
relating to the issue of a code of ethics for procurement (ibid., paras. 118 and 119),
inadequate training of procurement officers at the peacekeeping operations (paras.
120-122), the lack of comprehensive procurement planning by missions (paras. 123-
127), excessive lead times in delivery of procured items (paras. 128-131), renewal
of contracts without vendor performance evaluation reports (paras. 132-136),
inadequate assessment of vendor capacity and the need for goods/services prior to
registering vendors (paras. 137-139) and the lack of prioritization in respect of
topics for training and the people to be trained (paras. 140-143).

117. The Committee sought clarifications from the Board with regard to the issue of
a code of ethics and declaration of independence referred to in the report (paras. 118
and 119). The auditors informed the Committee that the recommendation aims at
establishing a framework for proactive accountability measures to supplement and
further strengthen the existing rules and guidelines concerning conflict of interest.
The Committee notes that the Board made similar comments in its previous report.

118. The Committee finds timely and essential the Board’s recommendation on
a code of ethics and declaration of independence by all staff members
associated with the procurement cycle. The Committee was informed of instances
where staff members who had left the Organization subsequently worked with
contractors whose services they had participated in procuring while they were staff
members of the United Nations. The Committee refers to its observations in
paragraph 114 above regarding a potential conflict of interest with respect to
secretariat officials as regards the airfield services contract for MONUC.

119. The Committee was informed of the Board’s intention to update the audit
manual, to take account of best practices, including the issues of ethics, that have
been incorporated in audit activities since the last revision of the manual seven years
ago. The Committee welcomes this intention and requests also the Board to
follow up on the implementation of its recommendation on a code of ethics. The
Committee recalls in this connection that the General Assembly, in paragraph 28 of
its resolution 52/226 A, requested the Secretary-General to submit proposals on
possible amendments to the Financial Regulations and Rules of the United Nations
and the Staff Regulations and Rules of the United Nations in order to address issues
of potential conflict of interest, such as the employment of former United Nations
procurement officers by United Nations suppliers and vice versa.

120. The Committee points out that the Board’s observations (ibid., para. 120)
indicate that training in procurement is not given the priority it deserves. For
example, the Committee was informed that of the 279 UNMIBH staff trained during
the period ended 30 June 2002, only one staff member was trained in procurement
activities. The Committee trusts that the implementation of the training
programme of the Procurement Division will eliminate the deficiencies in
procurement identified by the Board. The Committee requests the Board to
follow up on this in the context of its comprehensive audit of training
programmes in the United Nations. The auditors informed the Committee that a
horizontal audit was being conducted of all training activities of the Organization.
The Committee welcomes this information.



29

A/57/772

121. The Board has identified a number of problems in project delivery in
UNMIBH (see A/57/5, vol. II, chap. II, paras. 163-171), including serious
deficiencies in the procurement of patrol boats, cars and buses for the State Border
Service and in the execution of a project for disabled students (para. 169). It took
almost a year to sign a contract to procure the patrol boats, for instance (para. 167).

122. As indicated in the Board’s report (para. 168), it took 10 months to
procure cars but after nine months their users judged them unsatisfactory. The
Committee notes the intention of the Department of Peacekeeping Operations
to conduct a comprehensive review of the acquisition process (see para. 171 of
the Board’s report) and requests the Board to follow up on the issues reflected
in its report and to include the related information in its next audit report on
peacekeeping operations.

Travel

123. The Committee notes that the estimates for official travel for the period
2003/04 amount to $13.6 million (see A/C.5/57/34/Rev.1, annex). The Committee
noted that in the individual peacekeeping budgets the reasons given for the increased
requirements for official travel for 2003/04 were often inadequate and misleading.
For example, in one mission the increased requirements are explained as resulting
from planned additional travel for substantive and administrative support in relation
to the consolidation of the peace process and training for the enhancement of the
competencies of the staff in technology (A/57/673, para. 13). In another mission, the
Committee noted that intended travel for conferences and seminars had unspecified
outputs or expected accomplishments, appearing rather as contingency plans for
more travel for management officials. The Committee noted from detailed
information provided to it that the bulk of official travel resources are for training
and management purposes. In general, the Committee noted that travel provisions
relating to the mandate of the missions for political consultations and within the
mission area accounted for only a small proportion of the resources requested.

124. The Committee is of the view that it is not enough to justify travel for
management and training purposes as being necessary to “increase efficiency
and effectiveness”. There must be a specific purpose for such travel, which
would lead to a measurable result in fulfilling stated objectives. Moreover, it
can be presumed that as staff members are trained they will need less
supervision in the carrying out of their tasks, thus requiring less travel for this
purpose by senior officials. It should also be possible to reduce travel through
increased use of technology and by training trainers for some of the services of
the missions, as previously recommended by the Committee (see A/56/887,
para. 74). The Committee notes, for example, the designation, in the additional
information provided, of some of the official travel as “familiarization” travel,
or travel of officials of the Department of Peacekeeping Operations to the
mission, for the purpose of familiarizing themselves with its operations. The
Committee recommends that alternative methods, such as videoconferencing,
be explored to achieve the same purpose.



30

A/57/772

Bank charges

125. Bank charges reported under miscellaneous services amounted to $5.2 million
for 2001/02. For the period 2003/04, bank charges amounting to $4.2 million are
anticipated. The Committee believes that these considerable resources should be
carefully monitored and wherever possible agreement should be made with
banking authorities to lower bank charges; furthermore, the Committee
believes that for those missions being downsized the decrease in the level of
operations (e.g., volume of payment transactions for salaries and allowances)
should lead to lower costs for bank services.

126. Upon enquiry, the Committee was informed that the Secretariat would develop
a model banking agreement to standardize peacekeeping mission practices, with a
view to negotiating lower bank charges with banking authorities where the United
Nations operates a peacekeeping mission. The Committee welcomes this
development and requests that, once the model banking agreement has been
developed, the lessons learned from its use be applied in all missions and offices
away from Headquarters, whether they are peacekeeping missions or not.

Training

127. The Committee notes that the estimates shown in the overview report in the
amount of $6.5 million for the period 2003/04 for the training of civilian staff
(A/57/723, tables 12 and 13) do not include training-related travel and provisions for
training supplies and equipment. The Committee points out that the estimates for
training provided in the individual peacekeeping budgets are not clearly stated,
as the costs of training-related travel and training supplies and equipment are
subsumed under various miscellaneous budget lines. The Committee was
provided with information on the breakdown by mission of the total training
resources requested for the period 2003/04 for the proposed civilian staff, as
compared with training resources in the approved budgets for 2002/03 and
expenditures in 2001/02 (see annex I to the present report).

128. The Committee noted inconsistencies in the information on training received
from the Secretariat. In UNMIK, for example, the performance report indicated that
2,745 personnel were trained in 2001/02 (A/57/678, p. 11), while the additional
information given to the Committee shows only 2,676 staff and other persons
trained in 2001/02.

129. From the information provided in the documents and during the hearings,
the Committee believes that in some missions individual staff members may be
receiving multiple training courses that may not be related to their current or
future areas of responsibility in peacekeeping missions. The Committee
requests that in the future accurate statistics and records of costs related to
staff training be kept; furthermore, the training of personnel is an important
component of the proposed budget and all resources requested for training
should be indicated under one heading clearly and comprehensively in the
budget, without being subsumed under other miscellaneous budget lines of the
proposal.

130. Supplementary information submitted to the Committee in the context of
performance reports should include not only the number of staff members
trained and the type of training received; it should also specify whether the



31

A/57/772

staff members are still at the mission or, if not, indicate the mission to which
they have been transferred. Moreover, the Committee recalls that cost
overruns, in terms of activities related to mandate implementation, need to be
adequately justified from the operational point of view (see A/56/887, para. 19).

131. The Committee reiterates its view that there is a need for better planning
for training of personnel and that the subjects covered in the training
programmes should be tailored towards fulfilling the mandate of missions (see
A/56/887, para. 74). The Committee has noted a tendency to favour training in
communication and information technology, to the apparent neglect of areas
such as asset management, personnel, budget and financial matters. The
Committee has commented on the concern of the Board of Auditors with
regard to weaknesses in the skills of staff concerned with mission liquidation
(see para. 139 below). Inconsistencies in this area would indicate poor planning
and weak monitoring and difficulty in follow-up on the effectiveness of training
programmes in addressing mission problems.

132. In its report on the budget of the support account for 2002/03 (A/56/941,
para. 30), the Committee called for the Secretariat to develop a methodology
and monitoring system to evaluate the results of training in peacekeeping and
related areas, as well as to increase its effectiveness by making it more mission-
specific, where appropriate. The outcome of that exercise was to be provided in
the context of the submission of budgets for peacekeeping operations for
2003/04, but this has not been done. The Committee reiterates its request for
such an exercise.

133. In the view of the Committee, staff who are trained should, to the extent
possible, remain in the mission for which they are trained and, if transferred,
should continue to perform the function for which they were trained. The
Committee requests that the Board of Auditors take the views of the Committee
as expressed in this and the previous paragraphs into account when performing
its horizontal audits.

Miscellaneous supplies, services and equipment

134. On the basis of the information provided to it, the Committee concludes that
the expenses of a large number of items are incorrectly charged to miscellaneous
supplies, services and equipment. In the opinion of the Committee, these expenses
should be clearly identified and justified in the proposed estimates. The Committee
sees no reason why, in some missions, items such as rations, training, travel, public
information expenses, communication expenses and fuel delivery for air operations
should be charged to miscellaneous expenses. Furthermore, the Committee notes
that the amounts initially provided to it for consideration under this item are often
subsequently corrected, indicating a lack of proper monitoring and recording of this
type of expenditure.

135. The Committee therefore requests the Secretariat to review the criteria
for preparing estimates for and charging items to miscellaneous expenses, with
a view to minimizing, to the extent practicable, an apparent tendency to use
this item for unbudgeted expenses that should be planned, revealed and
justified in the budget estimates. Furthermore, the category of expenditure
“Miscellaneous supplies, services and equipment” should be for small items
that do not fall within the broad budget categories of expenditure and for



32

A/57/772

which the costs cannot be anticipated or planned in the estimates. It should not
be for items that entail large expenditure.

136. In response to the Committee’s concerns, as expressed above, the Committee
was informed that items included under the object of expenditure “Other
miscellaneous services” will be more clearly defined and attributed to other object
classes such as facilities and infrastructure, as appropriate. The inclusion of rations
in this category will be reviewed for the 2004/05 budget period. The nomenclature
of this category will also be reviewed.

Death and disability benefits

137. The Committee notes from the Secretary-General’s report (A/C.5/57/37,
para. 4) that almost all claims are now processed within the 90-day timeline
established by the General Assembly whenever complete information is provided by
the Member State at the time of submission of the claim. The Committee also notes
that there is no longer any backlog of claims (A/C.5/56/41, para. 10, and
A/C.5/57/37, para. 5).

138. The actions to be taken by the General Assembly in connection with death and
disability benefits are set out in the reports (A/C.5/56/41, para. 11, and A/C.5/57/37,
para. 6). For the reasons given in the preceding paragraph, the Committee
recommends that, in future, information on death and disability benefits be
included in the overview of the general report on peacekeeping operations.

Liquidation of field missions

139. The Committee concludes from the findings and observations of the Board
of Auditors on the liquidation of field missions (see A/57/5, vol. II, chap. II,
paras. 144-162) that numerous problems have occurred because of the lack of
such skills as budgeting, finance, accounting, procurement and inventory
management. The Committee stresses that staff possessing these skills in
missions under liquidation should be given the opportunity to serve in other
missions provided there are functions to carry out in those missions. The
Committee notes that 20 international and 12 local staff of UNMIBH had been
reassigned to other missions by early 2003 and that some 40 others were under
consideration for other missions (ibid., para. 152).

140. The Committee has commented in the past on the persistent weaknesses of the
mission liquidation process and has indicated that the period between the end of the
mandate of a mission and the date of the final performance report is long (see, e.g.,
A/56/887, paras. 71 and 79). The Committee remains concerned that all the
weaknesses relating to the capacity of the Secretariat to handle liquidations and
other related tasks at Headquarters and in the field have not yet been fully
addressed. For example, the Committee had been informed that standard
operating procedures for mission liquidation would be issued before the
Committee’s review of peacekeeping matters in 2003, but guidelines for mission
liquidation have not yet been promulgated. The Committee notes some
improvements in the liquidation of UNMIBH, but it is not convinced that a
roster is being maintained of personnel who are properly qualified and
experienced in mission liquidation, so that the Organization could have
recourse to their expertise and experience. The Committee recommends that
the Secretary-General make innovative proposals on the use and retention of



33

A/57/772

peacekeeping operation personnel in areas such as those highlighted by the
Board and referred to above.

141. The Committee received clarification that the status of the local staff of
UNMIBH was converted to internationally recruited staff before they were
reassigned to other missions. This being the case, the Committee points out that it
was the reassignment of international rather than local staff. The Committee
stresses that contractual appointments of limited duration to work for
peacekeeping operations should not in any way give rise to the expectation that
the United Nations is at any time under the obligation to offer career
appointments to mission appointees.

Security

142. With regard to resources for peacekeeping operations, the Committee was
provided with expenditure for the period 2001/02 totalling $33.5 million and
projected requirements for 2003/04 in the amount of $32.7 million (see annex II to
the present report for a breakdown by mission).



A
/57/772

34 Annex I
Training resources by peacekeeping component and financial period
(Thousands of United States dollars)

Class UNOMIG UNMIK UNFICYPa UNDOF UNIFIL UNIKOM UNMISETb MINURSO UNAMSIL MONUCc UNMEEd UNMIBH UNLB
Support

accounte Total

1. Expenditure for the period from 1 July 2001 to 30 June 2002
Consultants - - - - - - - - - - - 257.5 - 110.5 368.0
Official travel 104.1 156.1 47.4 74.8 12.9 60.6 177.0 113.0 295.9 476.6 231.3 29.3 5.8 557.8 2 342.6
Miscellaneous 
services 47.6 285.0 31.9 29.0 351.2 30.0 105.8 101.5 81.0 51.4 40.9 - 120.7 215.4 1 491.4

Total, line 1 151.7 441.1 79.3 103.8 364.1 90.6 282.8 214.5 376.9 528.0 272.2 286.8 126.5 883.7 4 202.0

Number of 
staff trained 45 2 676 49 166 136 33 2 679 40 63 145 69 279 155 - 6 535

2. Approved resources for the period from 1 July 2002 to 30 June 2003
Consultants - - - - - - - - - - - 95.0 - 519.0 614.0
Official travel 288.5 155.2 - 107.4 96.3 44.7 65.0 68.7 254.5 502.1 262.3 - - 1 916.5 3 761.2
Information 
technology - - - - - - - - - - - - - 30.0 30.0
Miscellaneous
services 80.5 418.3 82.4 41.6 266.6 117.1 209.9 43.0 68.1 249.7 131.1 10.0 391.2 470.0 2 579.5

Total, line 2 369.0 573.5 82.4 149.0 362.9 161.8 274.9 111.7 322.6 751.8 393.4 105.0 391.2 2 935.5 6 984.7

Number of staff
to be trained 145 1 331 63 105 143 26 192 19 45 94 57 161 107 - 2 488

3. Estimates for the period from 1 July 2003 to 30 June 2004
Consultants - - - - - - - - - - - - - 243.0 243.0
General
temporary
assistance - - - - - - - - - - - - - 10.0 10.0
Official travel 253.9 144.9 80.5 139.8 156.4 62.0 129.5 89.0 741.8 346.6 317.0 - 8.0 2 250.5 4 719.9
Miscellaneous
services 153.1 396.0 81.2 134.8 277.7 72.7 150.0 55.8 - 273.2 234.0 - 388.0 1 513.0 3 729.5

Total, line 3 407.0 540.9 161.7 274.6 434.1 134.7 279.5 144.8 741.8 619.8 551.0 - 396.0 4 016.5 8 702.4

Number of staff
to be trained 191 524 116 128 371 32 159 32 120 651 307 - 216 - 2 847

(Footnotes on following page)



35

A/57/772

(Footnotes to table)

______________
a For 2002/03, travel costs were included under miscellaneous services.
b For 2001/02, the number of staff included the within-mission training of staff.
c For the 2001/02 period, expenditures for miscellaneous services were recorded under official

travel. For the 2003/04 period, the estimate for miscellaneous services has been included
under official travel.

d For the 2003/04 period, includes 200 national staff to be trained in office automation,
languages, etc.

e Data on the number of military personnel and civilian staff trained are not currently
available. For the 2001/02 period, the expenditure on official travel was recorded under
miscellaneous services and was inadvertently overlooked in the crosswalk to the new class
structure.



A
/57/772

36 Annex II
Summary of mission security resources by peacekeeping operation
(Thousands of United States dollars)

Class UNOMIG UNMIK UNFICYP UNDOF UNIFIL UNIKOM UNMISET MINURSO UNAMSIL MONUC UNMEE UNMIBH UNLB Total

1. Expenditure for the period from 1 July 2001 to 30 June 2002

International staff 2 489.4 4 575.6 - - 117.4 98.0 4 557.4 - 373.6 2 897.5 108.4 2 661.0 - 17 878.3

National staff 494.3 4 961.3 - - - 185.0 554.4 - - 191.4 27.6 1 846.0 24.1 8 284.1

Facilities and
infrastructure 129.2 116.9 68.2 20.0 14.2 15.0 81.8 - - - 77.2 190.1 - 712.6

Ground transportation - 76.1 - 21.0 3.6 332.0 - - - 13.2 612.7 717.0 - 1 775.6

Miscellaneous
supplies, services and
equipment 72.8 619.7 25.2 26.0 3.0 8.0 212.5 - 168.9 2 408.2 1 200.0 74.7 20.0 4 839.0

Total, line 1 3 185.7 10 349.6 93.4 67.0 138.2 638.0 5 406.1 - 542.5 5 510.3 2 025.9 5 488.8 44.1 33 489.6

2. Requirements for the period from 1 July 2003 to 30 June 2004

International staff 2 952.2 3 026.7 80.2 - 117.0 174.2 3 465.6 - 500.0 6 212.4 216.0 - 50.0 16 744.3

National staff 494.3 2 794.5 - - 18.0 183.7 507.0 - - 593.7 24.9 - 24.1 4 616.1

Facilities and
infrastructure 131.4 2 842.7 153.5 369.0 36.0 9.0 - - - 585.7 51.2 - 210.0 4 178.5

Ground transportation - 96.6 - 131.0 6.0 - - - - - 516.3 - 50.0 749.9

Miscellaneous
supplies, services and
equipment 72.9 3 557.2 79.0 90.0 20.7 85.0 80.6 - 240.0 952.0 1 200.0 - - 6 377.4

Total, line 2 3 650.8 12 317.7 312.7 590.0 197.7 451.9 4 053.2 - 740.0 8 343.8 2 008.4 - 334.1 32 666.2


