
United Nations A/57/434

 

General Assembly Distr.: General
27 September 2002

Original: English

02-60818 (E)    270902

*0260818*

Fifty-seventh session
Agenda item 119
Joint Inspection Unit

Reports of the Joint Inspection Unit

Reforming the Field Service category of personnel in United Nations
peace operations

Support costs related to extrabudgetary activities in organizations of the
United Nations system

Strengthening the investigations function in United Nations system organizations

Enhancing the governance oversight role: structure, working methods and
practices on handling oversight reports

Report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and
Budgetary Questions

1. The Advisory Committee on Administrative and
Budgetary Questions has considered the reports of the
Joint Inspection Unit on reforming the Field Service
category of personnel in United Nations peace
operations (A/57/78), support costs related to
extrabudgetary activities in organizations of the United
Nations system (JIU/REP/2002/3),1 strengthening the
investigations function in United Nations system
organizations (A/56/282) and enhancing the
governance oversight role: structure, working methods
and practices on handling oversight reports (A/57/58).
In the course of its consideration of the reports of the
Joint Inspection Unit, the Advisory Committee
reviewed the related comments of the Secretary-
General contained in documents A/57/78/Add.1,
A/56/282/Add.1 and A/57/58/Add.1. The Committee
also considered reports of the Joint Inspection Unit on
management of buildings (A/56/274) and

administration of justice (JIU/REP/2002/5).1 The
Committee will take these reports into account when it
considers the related subjects, including reports of the
Secretary-General on the capital master plan
(A/57/285) and the reform of the administration of
justice in the United Nations Secretariat (A/56/800).

Reforming the Field Service category
of personnel in United Nations peace
operations

2. The Advisory Committee notes that the findings
of the Joint Inspection Unit report (A/57/78) are
addressed to the United Nations Secretariat, which is
already in the process of reforming the field service.

3. The Advisory Committee notes that
recommendation 1 of the Joint Inspection Unit on



2
A/57/434

reforming the Field Service category provides, inter
alia, that the Secretary-General would be requested to
prepare and submit to the General Assembly at its
fifty-eighth session a detailed and comprehensive
proposal for the future composition of the Field Service
category of personnel. As indicated in paragraph 2 of
the related report of the Secretary-General
(A/57/78/Add.1), the Secretariat is in the process of
reviewing the Field Service category on the basis of the
report of the Panel on United Nations Peace Operations
(A/55/305-S/2000/809), which first called for the
revision of the Field Service category to better match
the present and future demands of field operations.
Moreover, as indicated in paragraph 7 of the Secretary-
General’s report, after the completion of consultations
with relevant offices and Field Service staff
representatives, any necessary analysis of the
requirements in the field and the inventory of skills and
competencies of current field staff, the Secretary-
General will submit a comprehensive proposal to the
General Assembly for the future composition and
conditions of service of the Field Service category, as
suggested by the Joint Inspection Unit.

4. The Advisory Committee recommends that the
General Assembly approve the recommendations of the
Joint Inspection Unit on reforming the Field Service
category of personnel in United Nations peace
operations. The Committee requests the Secretary-
General to expedite the completion of the review of the
Field Service category and to submit his comprehensive
proposals in this regard to the General Assembly at its
fifty-eighth session, as recommended by the Joint
Inspection Unit. The Committee will follow up on the
implementation of the recommendations in the context
of its review of proposed requirements for peacekeeping
operations in February 2004.

Support costs related to extrabudgetary
activities in organizations of the United
Nations system

5. The Advisory Committee notes that, pursuant to
General Assembly resolution 56/245 of 24 December
2001, the report of the Joint Inspection Unit on support
costs related to extrabudgetary activities in
organizations of the United Nations system
(JIU/REP/2002/3) includes an annex that contains
comments from participating organizations. The
Committee is of the view, in this regard, that lessons

learned from this innovation need to be examined in
order to ascertain the extent to which this
procedure could expedite the consideration of
reports of the Joint Inspection Unit by the various
legislative bodies to which the reports might be
addressed.

6. The Advisory Committee notes from the annex to
the report that the general thrust of the report towards
harmonization of policy principles related to support
costs in the United Nations system organizations was
well received and welcomed by the secretariats of most
participating organizations. The Committee
recommends that the General Assembly endorse the
recommendations of the Joint Inspection Unit. The
Committee requests that the introduction to the
Secretary-General’s proposed programme budget
for the biennium 2004-2005 contain information on
policy changes with regard to support costs that
need to be made in order to implement the relevant
recommendations of the Joint Inspection Unit. The
Committee will revert to this subject during its review
of the Secretary-General’s proposed programme budget
for the biennium 2004-2005.

Strengthening the investigations
function in United Nations system
organizations

7. The Advisory Committee observes that the
Committee for Programme and Coordination has
recommended that the General Assembly endorse the
recommendations of the Joint Inspection Unit in the
manner indicated in paragraphs 357 and 358 of its
report.2

8. With regard to recommendation 4 of the Joint
Inspection Unit (see A/56/282), the Advisory
Committee points out that the use of external
contractors should be in compliance with the decisions
and criteria adopted by the General Assembly and other
relevant intergovernmental bodies.

Enhancing the governance oversight
role: structure, working methods and
practices on handling oversight reports

9. The Advisory Committee notes that
recommendations 1, 2 and 3 of the Joint Inspection
Unit (see A/57/58) are addressed to governing bodies



3
A/57/434

and recommendation 4 is addressed to the executive
heads. With respect to recommendation 1, the
Committee points out that the General Assembly has
already decided that thematic reports of the Joint
Inspection Unit should be considered under the
relevant agenda items of the Assembly (see General
Assembly resolution 50/233, para. 5). The Committee
is of the view that the steps outlined in
recommendation 1 might give rise to complications
and it cautions, therefore, against adopting
mechanical procedures that might be difficult to
implement.

10. Recommendations 2 and 3 concern legislative
machinery; the Advisory Committee points out that the
issue of the number, composition and terms of
reference of subsidiary legislative bodies with
oversight responsibility is a political matter that is
within the purview of the General Assembly.

11. With regard to recommendation 4, the Advisory
Committee points out that the related procedure is
already under implementation in the United Nations.

Notes
1 To be issued as a document of the fifty-seventh session

of the General Assembly.
2 Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-seventh

Session, Supplement No. 16 (A/57/16).


