
United Nations A/58/809

 

General Assembly Distr.: General
20 May 2004

Original: English

04-35849 (E)    200504

*0435849*

Fifty-eighth session
Agenda items 140 and 168

Financing of the United Nations Mission of
Support in East Timor

Financing of the United Nations Stabilization
Mission in Haiti

Interim budget for the United Nations Mission of Support in
East Timor for the period from 1 July to 31 December 2004

Interim budget for the United Nations Stabilization Mission
in Haiti for the period from 1 May to 31 December 2004

Report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and
Budgetary Questions

1. The interim budgets for the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti
(MINUSTAH) for the period from 1 May to 31 December 2004 and for the United
Nations Mission of Support in East Timor (UNMISET) for the period from 1 July to
31 December 2004 were received in advance form by the Advisory Committee on 17
May and 13 May 2004, respectively. The supplementary information required by the
Committee to consider the reports was received on 17 May 2004.

2. The Advisory Committee is aware of the great pressure under which these
reports had to be produced, and notes that the time constraints have led to an
outcome in which the requirements presented constitute more of a projection
than fully justifiable estimates. In this connection, the Committee points out
that these presentations of resource requirements are called “interim budgets”.
Although not specifically prohibited by any legislative decision, this concept
would add another procedural and administrative layer that provides the
appearance of a real budget, but is not susceptible to the type of scrutiny given
to a full budget.

3. The Advisory Committee recognizes that this situation, in which a number
of large and complex missions are being organized almost simultaneously, puts
a tremendous strain on the Organization and its legislative process. The
Advisory Committee intends to give serious thought to this matter, including a



2
A/58/809

consideration of possible refinements to the procedures laid down in General
Assembly resolution 49/233 A of 23 December 1994, to better address the surge
capacity in the planning and budgeting of peacekeeping missions.

4. In view of the time constraints resulting from the planned closing of the
resumed session of the Fifth Committee on 28 May 2004, and the nature of the
projections/estimates referred to above, the Advisory Committee believes that
it would be unrealistic for either it or the Fifth Committee to attempt a detailed
examination of the requirements for these Missions at this stage. It would
therefore be the intention of the Advisory Committee to conduct such a detailed
examination on the basis of the fully justified estimates to be presented in early
fall 2004.

5. Accordingly, the Advisory Committee has requested information from the
Secretariat on the financial requirements for the period between July and
October 2004. On this basis, the Committee recommends that the General
Assembly approve commitment authority with assessment for MINUSTAH and
UNMISET, as follows:

July-October 2004
(thousands of United States dollars)

MINUSTAH 172 480.5
UNMISET 30 485.6

The Committee has, under the provisions of General Assembly resolution
49/233, already concurred on commitment authority of up to $49,259,800 for
MINUSTAH for the period from 1 May to 30 June 2004. This amount should
also be assessed. Thus, the total assessment for MINUSTAH would be
$221,740,300.

6. The Advisory Committee recalls that approval of commitment authority
with assessment has been granted by the General Assembly on a number of
occasions in the past, most recently with regard to the United Nations Interim
Administration Mission in Kosovo (see General Assembly resolution 54/245 B
of 15 June 2000). While it is normally a practice to be avoided (see Advisory
Committee reports A/55/941, para. 25, and A/56/688, para. 14), it can and has
been used at the start-up of a new mission when the level of eventual
appropriation is still uncertain but there is an urgent need for cash.

7. The above recommendation of the Advisory Committee for funding is
made without prejudice to any recommendations that it may make to the
General Assembly when it considers the full budgets of MINUSTAH and
UNMISET in the fall or any decision that the General Assembly might take
thereon with regard to budgetary and administrative matters, including but not
limited to the administrative structure of the Missions, their staffing tables and
operational requirements.

8. In this connection, the Advisory Committee expects particular attention to
be paid to the concerns it has previously expressed on the fragmented and top-
heavy organizational structure of some missions, as well as the need for clear
lines of reporting. The Committee has also, in the recent past, commented on



3
A/58/809

the need to examine the issue of the application of standard ratios for vehicles
and information technology equipment, the need to ensure capacity to
implement quick-impact projects without creating bureaucratic structures to
support the implementation of such projects and the need to define the concept
and functions of joint mission analysis cells vis-à-vis the existing United
Nations structure, in particular the security structure, before these cells are
established. The Committee has also encouraged greater use of national staff
and United Nations Volunteers wherever feasible and cost-effective (see, for
example, its report on the proposed budget for the United Nations Operation in
Côte d’Ivoire, A/58/806, and its report on the administrative and budgetary
aspects of the financing of peacekeeping operations, A/58/759). The Committee
has requested information on the methodology utilized for budgeting for
electoral assistance activities, including time lines for the assessment of needs,
and expects requests in this regard to be well justified.

9. The Advisory Committee trusts that in the proposals to be submitted in
the fall, which should have clear links to the elements of the mandates
concerned, due account will be taken of its concerns, especially with regard to
MINUSTAH, which is a new Mission.


