
United Nations A/58/620

 

General Assembly Distr.: General
5 December 2003

Original: English

03-64463 (E)    091203
*0364463*

Fifty-eighth session
Agenda item 129
Joint Inspection Unit

Report of the Joint Inspection Unit on “From the Optical
Disk System to the Official Documents System (ODS):
status of implementation and evaluation”

Report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and
Budgetary Questions

1. The Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions has
considered the note by the Secretary-General (A/58/435) transmitting the report of
the Joint Inspection Unit entitled “From the Optical Disk System to the Official
Documents System (ODS): status of implementation and evaluation”. The
Committee also had before it the comments of the Secretary-General on that report
(A/58/438/Add.1). During its consideration of the item, the Committee held a
videoconference with representatives of the Joint Inspection Unit, who provided
additional information.

2. The Advisory Committee commends the Joint Inspection Unit for its report
and notes that the Secretariat has accepted the bulk of the recommendations
contained therein. The Committee requests the Secretary-General to report on the
implementation of the recommendations of the Joint Inspection Unit in the context
of his report on the pattern of conferences, to be submitted to the General Assembly
through the Committee on Conferences.

3. The Advisory Committee recalls that, according to supplementary information
provided to it during its consideration of the proposed programme budget of the
United Nations for the biennium 2004-2005, provision was made for a total of
$1,790,000 (before recosting), under section 29 D, Office of Central Support
Services, for ODS ($260,000), to interface ODS with other critical applications in
the Secretariat, and $1,530,000 for servers, software and storage space to provide
free access to ODS through the Internet. The Advisory Committee requests that,
in future, information on the financial implication of extending usage of the
system, including the long-term implications of processing reports published
prior to the introduction of the system, be provided to the General Assembly.



2
A/58/620

4. As can be seen from annex II to document A/58/435, 50 per cent of Member
States in Geneva and 70 per cent of Member States in Vienna have not requested
access to ODS. Upon enquiry, the Advisory Committee was informed that the low
level of requested access to ODS by Member States in Geneva and Vienna is the
result of a lack of awareness of the availability of the system. The Committee
stresses the importance of modernizing, re-engineering and making ODS fully
accessible to Member States; the Secretariat should publicize the availability of this
facility.

5. The Advisory Committee recommends that the General Assembly
consider the report of the Joint Inspection Unit in the light of its comments
provided above.


