
United Nations A/58/759

 

General Assembly Distr.: General
6 April 2004

Original: English

04-30070 (E)    200404

*0430070*

Fifty-eighth session
Agenda items 118 and 134

Financial reports and audited financial statements, and
reports of the Board of Auditors

Administrative and budgetary aspects of the financing
of the United Nations peacekeeping operations

Administrative and budgetary aspects of the financing of
the United Nations peacekeeping operations

Report of the Board of Auditors

Report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and
Budgetary Questions

Contents
Paragraphs Page

 I. Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 2

 II. Report of the Board of Auditors. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2–11 2

 III. Reports of the Secretary-General on the financing of peacekeeping operations . . . 12–104 4

A. Results-based budgeting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14–23 5

B. Military and police personnel. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24–27 8

C. Civilian personnel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28–48 9

D. Operational costs*. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49–81 14

E. Other matters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82–104 22

Annexes

 I. Reports considered by the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions . 28

 II. Amounts owed to Member States for troop and contingent-owned equipment costs. . . . . . . . . . 30

 III. Number of civilian personnel by mission and type of personnel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33

 IV. Aircraft fleet deployed in peacekeeping missions: status as at 29 February 2004 . . . . . . . . . . . . 35

 V. Provisions for rations by mission and financial period . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37

* The issue of communication and information technology was dealt with comprehensively in the
Committee’s report of last year (A/57/772, paras. 100-106).



2
A/58/759

I. Introduction

1. In section II below, the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary
Questions comments on general issues arising solely from the report of the Board of
Auditors on the accounts of the United Nations peacekeeping operations for the
financial period ended 30 June 2003 (A/58/5, vol. II, chap. II).1 In section III it
addresses matters arising from the reports of the Secretary-General on peacekeeping
operations, including, where relevant, reference to recommendations or observations
of the Board of Auditors (see annex I for the list of documents considered by the
Advisory Committee).

II. Report of the Board of Auditors

2. The Board of Auditors audited the accounts of peacekeeping operations for the
financial period ended 30 June 2003 (see A/58/5, vol. II, chap. II). During its
consideration of these matters, the Advisory Committee met with the members of
the Audit Operations Committee of the Board of Auditors. The Committee also had
before it a report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of the
recommendations of the Board of Auditors concerning United Nations peacekeeping
operations for the period ended 30 June 2003 (A/58/737).

3. The audit covers:

(a) Headquarters operations;

(b) Two field missions funded from the regular budget;

(c) Ten missions funded from special assessed contributions;

(d) The United Nations Logistics Base at Brindisi, Italy;

(e) Twenty completed missions;

(f) Four field missions that were not visited;

(g) The Peacekeeping Reserve Fund;

(h) The support account for peacekeeping operations.

The report also addresses the requests made by the Advisory Committee and the
General Assembly as outlined in chapter II, paragraph 5, of document A/58/5,
volume II, and the Board’s main recommendations are summarized in chapter II,
paragraph 12.

4. The Advisory Committee commends the Board for the quality of its
report. In line with the request of the Committee, the Board’s report includes the
management audit of air operations, contingent-owned equipment, inventory
management, procurement practices and training. In response to the Committee’s
previous request, the Board’s report also reflects a change in the format of the
Board’s reporting on the implementation of its previous recommendations. In the
past, the Board’s report included an annex containing the Board’s comments on the
status of implementation of its previous recommendations. As suggested by the
Advisory Committee, the latest report of the Board includes such comments in the
main body of the report, with a summary table in annex II that is cross-referenced to
the detailed text in the report.



3
A/58/759

5. The Board confirms that with respect to the recommendations it made in its
report for the period ended 30 June 2001, there are no significant outstanding
matters, except for those addressed in its report for the period ended 30 June 2003
(see A/58/5, vol. II, chap. II, para. 10).

6. The Advisory Committee was briefed on the Board’s external auditing
standards and guidelines and on the coordination it undertakes (mainly during
planning) with other oversight bodies, including the Office of Internal Oversight
Services, internal audit services of the United Nations funds and programmes and
the Joint Inspection Unit, in order to avoid duplication of efforts. The Committee
welcomes the coordination and collaboration among the oversight bodies in the
planning of audit activities, which has been an issue of long-standing interest to
the General Assembly. The Committee trusts that such coordination and
collaboration will continue to ensure optimal use of audit resources, thus
ensuring better complementarity of effort and wider and deeper coverage of
audit areas.

7. In paragraph 6 of its report, the Board indicated the approach adopted to
address a request made by the General Assembly. In its resolution 57/318 of 18 June
2003, the General Assembly requested the Board to review and report on the
implementation of the recommendations of the Special Committee on Peacekeeping
Operations and the Panel on United Nations Peace Operations and to gauge the
effects of management reform measures. As the Assembly had requested a similar
review by the Office of Internal Oversight Services in 2002, and since that Office
had already started its review, the Board decided to postpone action on the request
of the General Assembly until the Office had completed its report and the Board had
had an opportunity to assess what additional evaluation it could provide (ibid.,
para. 6).

8. In view of the wide scope of the Board’s mandate under article VII of the
Financial Regulations and Rules of the United Nations, and in particular
regulation 7.5, with regard to the administration and management of the
Organization, the Advisory Committee reiterates its view that, in future audit
reports, the Board may wish to continue to place increased emphasis on
management audit to determine whether the resources of the audited
administrations are being used efficiently and effectively.

9. While the Advisory Committee has noted increasing compliance with the
recommendations of the Board, the Board may wish to continue to monitor the
quality of implementation, on the understanding that management would be
required to fix responsibility for repeated non-compliance with those
recommendations of the Board endorsed by the General Assembly.

Financial issues

10. For the period ended 30 June 2003, the report of the Board of Auditors
covers key financial issues of the United Nations peacekeeping operations (ibid.,
paras. 14-66). The financial position of the peacekeeping operations has remained
fairly stable since the previous financial period (ibid., para. 15). Ratios of key
financial indicators are shown in table II.1 of the Board’s report. The Board notes
that the ageing of unpaid assessments, with varying uncertainty of recoverability,
has an impact on the Organization’s ability to meet its financial obligations,
especially since the General Assembly did not make provisions for the possible



4
A/58/759

non-collection of assessed dues from Member States (ibid., para. 17). The
outstanding amounts in respect of active missions and the financial position of
completed missions are shown in table II.2 and table II.3 of the Board’s report.

Allotment procedures

11. The Board reviewed the implementation of a new policy of the administration
on allotments for peacekeeping operations. The Chief Administrative Officer of a
mission would have authority to redeploy funds among classes or groups within a
category of expenditure to utilize available funding more effectively. This increased
flexibility would presumably allow missions the means to better prioritize resources.
A funds monitoring tool was developed and launched during the financial year to
assist peacekeeping missions with the implementation of the new policy on
allotments; however, the Board was unable to evaluate the implementation of the
funds monitoring tool and the impact of the new allotment procedures, as
management reports were not available in this regard. The Advisory Committee
shares the concern of the Board that the redeployment of funds was not
continuously monitored and recorded throughout the period under review,
contrary to the goal of the new allotment procedures (ibid., paras. 28-36). The
administration informed the Committee that additional training workshops for cost-
centre managers were planned for spring 2004 on the use of the funds monitoring
tool, and enhancements of the tool would be rolled out to the missions in spring
2005. The Committee trusts that the effective utilization of the funds
monitoring tool would assist the peacekeeping missions to implement effectively
the new policy on allotments.

III. Reports of the Secretary-General on the financing of
peacekeeping operations

12. A summary of the total proposed resources for peacekeeping operations for
2004/05 as compared with the total approved budget for 2003/04 and expenditure
for 2002/03 is given in the Secretary-General’s overview report (see A/58/705, table
7). Inclusive of the cost estimates for the United Nations Logistics Base at Brindisi,
Italy, and the support account for peacekeeping operations, the total proposed
budget for 2004/05 amounts to $2.7 billion (including projected requirements for the
United Nations Mission in Liberia (UNMIL) pending the finalization of the budget).
The total budget approved for 2003/04 amounts to $2.8 billion, and expenditures for
2002/03 to $2.3 billion. The Advisory Committee was informed that there was a
distinct possibility that a number of new missions would be established during the
period (e.g., in Burundi, the Sudan and Haiti) and that the mission in Côte d’Ivoire
would be expanded.

13. During its examination of the reports of the Secretary-General, the Advisory
Committee continued to focus on issues relating to budget preparation, as well as
monitoring and control of budget implementation, keeping in mind its previous
recommendations as approved by the General Assembly. The Committee also gave
attention to the adequacy of explanations on budget performance changes and
proposed budget estimates. The comments of the Committee on general issues
applicable to most peacekeeping operations can be found, where relevant, in the
discussion on individual objects of expenditure and management issues in the



5
A/58/759

paragraphs below. As indicated in paragraph 1 above, the Committee has also taken
into account the Board’s findings and recommendations on these matters.

A. Results-based budgeting

14. For the period 2002/03, the financial systems in use did not have the
capabilities to directly align the financial resources with results-based budgeting.
The budgets for the period were reviewed and approved independently from the
results-based budgeting frameworks, and there was therefore no direct link between
the expenditure and the indicators of achievement in the results-based budgeting
frameworks in the 2002/03 budgets. At that time, the Advisory Committee had been
informed that the costing and recording of expenditure by results would require an
Organization-wide overhaul or replacement of systems, in particular the Integrated
Management Information System (IMIS). As indicated in the overview report on the
financing of peacekeeping operations (see A/58/705, para. 5), the performance
reports for 2002/03 were therefore prepared in a transitional format, showing the
actual indicators of achievement and actual outputs for which information was
available.

15. The budgets for 2003/04 were prepared utilizing the concept of results-based
budgeting in peacekeeping operations for the first time. The Advisory Committee
commented extensively on the matter (see A/57/772, paras. 37-52). The Committee
was briefed on key improvements in the process of results-based budgeting and in
the presentation of the budget using results-based budgeting techniques. In the
budget proposals for 2004/05, an attempt has been made to follow the observations
of the Committee. As indicated in the same report, the budget proposals for 2004/05
contain more measurable indicators of achievement than those for the previous
period. In most missions, outputs are quantifiable and/or measurable in the context
of the results-based budgeting frameworks and, despite the continuing problems
referred to in paragraph 16 below, attempts have been made to link resources to
outputs and indicators of achievement. Missions have defined their components in
line with mandates and mission plans. The human resources for each mission have
been attributed to the individual components, with the exception of the mission’s
executive direction and management, which have been attributed to the mission as a
whole, and efforts have been made to link financial resources for operational costs
for each mission to measurable outputs in the support component framework. The
Committee welcomes the refinements made in the presentation of the budget
using results-based budgeting techniques, while emphasizing that further
improvements are necessary, as indicated below.

16. In the first place, it is apparent that little progress has been made in
enhancing the capability of existing financial systems to support results-based
budgeting, and the situation has not changed much from that described in
paragraph 14 above. The Advisory Committee notes with concern that, as at
the end of March 2004, with the existing financial systems, operational
resources and costs could not be attributed, monitored and recorded
automatically for the results-based budgeting framework of each mission, and
additional systems will need to be installed. Specifically:

(a) The financial systems do not have any built-in features to help in
calculating, for the budget formulation, the shares of planned operational resources



6
A/58/759

for each results-based budgeting framework, and each mission will have to face
additional workload to define a long series of cost drivers and to calculate, through
spreadsheets, how each operational resources code is split up among the
frameworks;

(b) Even if the mission (manually) determines the shares of planned
operational resources for each results-based budgeting framework for the budget, it
cannot automatically reconcile this with actual usage, as information on the latter is
maintained outside the financial systems;

(c) Human resources for peacekeeping missions are not differentiated in
IMIS by results-based budgeting framework, and related costs, including common
staff costs, cannot be tracked by component;

(d) The account structure hierarchy in IMIS is based on inputs and functional
cost centres, and the system would need to be overhauled to change to a hierarchy
based on results-based budgeting frameworks and programme managers. IMIS
allotments would need to be segregated accordingly. No reallocation of operational
resources between results-based budgeting frameworks can be done automatically,
and any such reallocation would generate additional requests to Headquarters for an
IMIS allotment revision. As peacekeeping missions maintain another financial
system, called Sun, in the field, any of the overhaul tasks indicated above would
subsequently apply to it as well.

17. Since it first started its consideration of the development of results-based
budgeting in the United Nations, the Advisory Committee has stressed the
absolute necessity of developing financial systems to link to a comprehensive
programme information system to ensure that requests for resources can be
directly attributed to outputs and accomplishments and to facilitate
performance measurement and reporting. Such a linkage is an essential
element of the results-based budgeting concept (see A/57/772, para. 52, and
A/58/7,2 para. 10). In paragraph 13 of its first report on the proposed
programme budget for 2004-2005,3 the Advisory Committee referred to the
plans of the Secretariat to enhance financial systems for the next biennium in
respect of the regular budget. The Advisory Committee stresses the crucial
importance of achieving similar progress in the next presentation of
peacekeeping budget proposals.

18. The Advisory Committee points out that, although attempts were made to
distribute human resources among various components in order to reflect the
linkage and distribution of workload among those components, to some extent
this was done arbitrarily (for example, in the United Nations Organization
Mission in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUC)). With regard to
objective-setting, the Committee points out that, within the mandate of
assisting the Security Council to achieve its overall objective of maintaining
international peace and security, there is a need for the missions to state more
clearly mission-specific objectives in the budget documents.

19. Furthermore, it is not sufficient to indicate that the expected
accomplishments would lead to the fulfilment of the Security Council objective
within the time frame of the mission. In some missions (e.g., the United Nations
Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK) and the United Nations
Mission in Ethiopia and Eritrea (UNMEE)), indicators of achievement and



7
A/58/759

outputs are mentioned with reference to past actions, without a clearly defined
time frame. In order to avoid confusion, the Advisory Committee requests the
Secretariat to refrain from using the past tense to describe activities that are to
be undertaken in the future or that are not yet completed. In a number of
missions, the indicators of achievement and outputs in the budget documents
are not precisely stated; as a result, progress in implementation of mission
activities cannot be objectively assessed. The Committee stresses the
importance of drafting the expected accomplishments, indicators of
achievement and planned outputs under each component in a clear manner,
identifying time frames, in order to facilitate their monitoring and reporting.
This would allow objective measurement of progress in the implementation of
expected accomplishments and the mission’s objective. The Advisory
Committee also notes that the results-based budgeting framework for the
United Nations Disengagement Observer Force (UNDOF) and the United
Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL) does not contain a substantive
civilian component in the performance report or the proposed programme
budget for the mission.

20. The Advisory Committee notes that for the budget period 2004/05, more
mission managers were involved in the results-based budgeting effort than in the
previous period. Regional workshops were conducted in July 2003 with the
participation of senior mission staff. The Committee welcomes these
developments and stresses the need for the continued involvement and
participation of top management of the missions in the budget process. The
Committee was informed that the Secretariat was developing an electronic tool to
automate data collection plans and enable a “portfolio of evidence” to be established
in line with the recommendation of the Board of Auditors (see A/58/5, vol. II,
chap. II, para. 110). This electronic tool would be launched in the first half of 2005
so that managers would be assisted in their monitoring of results-based budgeting
frameworks during the 2004/05 financial period.

21. The Board of Auditors has commented on mechanisms for accountability that
would include the alignment of performance appraisal of mission personnel with the
results-based budgeting frameworks in all missions, as well as at Headquarters. The
Board recommends that this be filtered down to all staff through their job
descriptions and performance agreements to ensure awareness of the responsibility
and accountability of all staff in respect of achieving the accomplishments set out in
the results-based framework. The Advisory Committee notes that the Secretariat has
agreed with this objective and that it will be developing and promulgating guidelines
in this regard. It is expected that the implementation of the exercise will be
completed during the 2005/06 performance cycle (see A/58/5, vol. II, chap. II,
paras. 103-106). The Committee intends to monitor this matter.

22. The Advisory Committee points out that in most reports the summary of
follow-up actions to implement requests and recommendations of the oversight
bodies and the Advisory Committee is incomplete, and a discussion on the impact of
the recommendations in both the short and the long term has been omitted. For
example, in paragraph 29 of its previous report on the United Nations Mission in
Sierra Leone (UNAMSIL) (A/57/772/Add.3), the Committee pointed out that in
several instances property and inventory management required significant
improvement, but the budget document (A/58/661) contains no information on what
has been done to improve property and inventory management in that Mission. The



8
A/58/759

Advisory Committee was informed that the existing management inventory system
(field assets control system) was not reliable. The Committee trusts that now that a
new assets management system (Galileo) is in place, UNAMSIL and other missions
will improve their inventory control practices. The Committee requests that in
future the follow-up to recommendations of the oversight bodies and the
Committee be stated comprehensively, addressing issues of both the short- and
long-term impact of the recommendations.

23. The Advisory Committee sought clarification on the role of the Peacekeeping
Best Practices Unit of the Department of Peacekeeping Operations and was
informed that the Unit is developing mechanisms to make lessons learned part of the
mission planning process. To promote sharing of knowledge between the
Department of Peacekeeping Operations and the field missions, and to ensure that
lessons learned are taken into account in the implementation of mission mandates, a
network of best practices focal points is being developed. One fully dedicated focal
point was placed in MONUC, as a pilot case, and there are part-time focal points in
UNMEE, the United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara
(MINURSO) and the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA).
A study conducted on the United Nations Mission in Côte d’Ivoire (MINUCI)
resulted in changes in procedures relating to pre-mandate commitment authority. In
addition, the Unit’s studies on the evacuation of the United Nations Iraq-Kuwait
Observation Mission (UNIKOM) and the Baghdad crisis response provide
guidelines to help bridge gaps in current procedures.

B. Military and police personnel

24. Upon enquiry, the Advisory Committee was informed that, in accordance with
established United Nations policy, troops and formed units are provided with
rotations every six months. However, on the basis of national policy, some troops
and formed units rotate in a cycle other than the biannual cycle. The costs of
rotations that exceed the biannual rotations provided by the United Nations are
borne by the troop-contributing country concerned. In some cases, such as that of
MONUC, a large proportion of the contingents rotate after periods longer than six
months, leading to savings for the United Nations. The Committee requests the
Secretariat to look into the feasibility of extending the time between rotations,
whenever possible.

Management of contingent-owned equipment arrangements

25. The Board of Auditors noted improvements in the processing of claims
relating to contingent-owned equipment following the successful negotiation of
memorandums of understanding with troop contributors participating in
peacekeeping operations and the streamlining of the verification process. The Board
noted that effective monitoring of the submission process of verification reports and
the automation of the verification reporting process from the missions contributed to
these reports being received in a timely manner. The Board indicated that pre-
deployment visits were conducted for only 4 of 10 units deployed during the period
under review and that the benchmarking of personnel resources needed to efficiently
manage the work relating to the contingent-owned equipment system was in
progress at the time of the audit (see A/58/5, vol. II, chap. II, paras. 202-216). In
this connection, however, the Advisory Committee notes that in some cases



9
A/58/759

pre-deployment visits were not necessary, as the troop contributor concerned was
not a new participant, so previous visits had been made and the troop contributor
was thoroughly familiar with requirements in the field. The Committee requests
the Board to keep these issues under review.

26. The Advisory Committee was provided with mission-specific information on
amounts owed to Member States as at 29 February 2004 for troop and contingent-
owned equipment costs (see annex II).

27. The Advisory Committee recalls that for the 2001/02 period underexpenditure
arose under facilities and infrastructure in UNAMSIL because a number of troop-
contributing countries utilized tents instead of hard-wall accommodation
(see A/57/772/Add.3, para. 33). As the United Nations pays dual tentage and
accommodation rates whenever a contingent remains in tents after the first six
months of its deployment, and all units that had been deployed to UNAMSIL had
been in the Mission for more than six months, the units in question received the dual
payment. The Committee recalls that had the troops been offered United Nations
accommodation, no payment would have been due; the United Nations would,
however, have incurred costs greater than what was actually spent. The Committee
questioned the matter and remains concerned about the living accommodation
of the troops. In view of the planned downsizing and eventual liquidation of
UNAMSIL, the issue of constructing hard-wall accommodation may no longer
be relevant to that Mission; however, lessons learned on the matter should be
applied in the future to other missions. The Committee understands that in
some missions, such as MONUC, owing to the operational environment, it is
impractical to provide all contingents with hard-wall accommodation at all
times. In this connection, the Committee points out that financial
considerations should not be the predominant factor in such decisions. Troops
should be provided with hard-wall accommodation, except when requirements
for mobility of units and the operational environment genuinely dictate
otherwise.

C. Civilian personnel

28. Table 10 of document A/58/705 shows that a total of 10,652 posts are proposed
for international and national staff in peacekeeping missions for the 2004/05 period,
as compared with 12,043 approved for 2003/04. Upon request, the Advisory
Committee was provided with an updated table of the post estimates in
peacekeeping missions, showing the number of posts proposed for international and
national staff and United Nations Volunteers (see annex III). The Committee notes
that the number of civilian staff requested to support peacekeeping will, in all
likelihood, increase during the budget period as a result of the establishment of
new missions.

29. The Advisory Committee notes that progress has been made in lowering
vacancy rates in some missions (e.g., UNMEE and UNMIK); however, in several
missions vacancy rates for international personnel continue to be high, and timely
recruitment of staff continues to be an area of concern (see A/58/705, table 5).

30. An audit by the Office of Internal Oversight Services of the policies and
procedures for recruiting staff for the Department of Peacekeeping Operations,
prepared pursuant to General Assembly resolution 57/287 A of 20 December 2002,



10

A/58/759

focused on appointments of staff in the Professional category and above during 2002
(see A/58/704). The Office of Internal Oversight Services found that the average
time frame for recruiting such staff was 347 days. This was significantly higher than
the goal of 120 days envisaged in the report of the Secretary-General on human
resources management reform (A/55/253 and Corr.1). Upon request, the Advisory
Committee was provided with an update of measures taken to reduce vacancy rates
and time of recruitment in peacekeeping operations. The Committee emphasizes
that the issue of timely recruitment of staff for the Department of Peacekeeping
Operations is critical, and all efforts should be made to reach the stated
recruitment goals. The Committee will revert to this subject when it takes up
human resources reform.

31. The Advisory Committee observes that for the 2002/03 period, as for 2001/02,
underexpenditure in the civilian personnel component of some missions resulted
from recruitment of international staff at grades lower than those approved in the
authorized staffing table of the missions (e.g., UNAMSIL, UNMEE, UNMIK,
MINURSO) (see A/58/705, table 4). The Committee understands that this situation
has persisted for 8 to 10 years in some missions. Although it is understandable
during start-up, it should not persist in stable missions.

32. In some cases, staffing at lower-than-approved grades happens at the senior
level. For example, in MINURSO, the post of Assistant Secretary-General is being
encumbered at the D-1 level by the Adviser to the Special Representative of the
Secretary-General. In its report for the period ended 30 June 2003, the Board
reviews again the issue of appointments of staff at lower levels to perform the
functions of a post initially advertised at a higher level. The Advisory Committee
joins the Board in its recommendation that the administration evaluate the
level of the incumbents appointed to the budgeted posts at missions to ensure
that staff members occupy posts at the appropriate level or that the level of the
posts be re-evaluated, and that appropriate steps be taken to rectify the
inconsistencies (see A/58/5, vol. II, chap. II, para. 243). The Committee
reiterates its view that when posts are consistently filled at lower levels and
staff members recruited at lower levels perform to the satisfaction of the
mission officials, the level of the higher graded posts should be reviewed and
reclassified accordingly (see A/57/772, para. 81).

33. The Advisory Committee understands that the Department of Peacekeeping
Operations has continued to conduct managerial, staffing and operational reviews of
mission activities in the field. The Committee welcomes these reviews but points
out that the results and findings of these reviews have not been clearly reflected in
the budget proposals. For example, a managerial review of staffing and
organizational structure has been under way in the United Nations Observer Mission
in Georgia (UNOMIG) since April 2003, but the results have not been reflected in
the budget for the 2004/05 period. The Committee finds this regrettable. The
Committee is concerned that after a protracted period of delay, the findings of
a review may become irrelevant, as the mission in question would be facing new
challenges. The Committee recommends that the Board of Auditors follow up
on the issue of periodic and timely management reviews.

34. Under the support component of the proposed budgets, the Advisory
Committee noted proposals for restructuring the supervision of the technical support
areas of peacekeeping missions (i.e., communications and information technology,



11

A/58/759

engineering, air operations and transport) for the purpose of reclassifying posts
(e.g., in UNOMIG). The Committee believes that there is a need to establish a
common approach for the supervision of these technical functions in
peacekeeping missions. It does not accept proposals for restructuring whose
main purpose is to justify the reclassification of posts.

35. The Advisory Committee exchanged views with the representatives of the
Secretary-General on the proposed conversion of staff in peacekeeping missions
from the 300 series of the Staff Rules to the 100 series. The Advisory Committee
recalls that 300-series appointments in peacekeeping operations were launched in
1994, as a pilot project, to provide a temporary surge capacity to supplement
mission staff at peak periods of peacekeeping activity. The Committee was informed
that about 1,600 Professional and 5,000 national staff members would be converted
from the 300 to the 100 series of the Staff Rules during the period 2004/05. An
amount of $10,633,500 has been included in the budgets of three missions (UNMIK,
UNAMSIL and UNMEE) for the conversion of 358 international staff, based on
standard salary costs. Although there are staff members in other missions that would
be eligible for conversion during the budget period, additional budgetary provisions
were not made in those missions, as the numbers of such staff were not clearly
identifiable at the time of the preparation of the budgets. The Committee has
serious doubts about the accuracy of the figures provided. It requests detailed
and well-justified information in the next submission on this matter.

36. In view of its temporary nature, the 300-series appointment was limited to
mission appointees for a maximum period of up to four years, and the compensation
package was supposed to be simple to administer (see A/49/30, paras. 349-367).4

The Advisory Committee was informed that the current practice of the Department
of Peacekeeping Operations is to offer mission staff under the 300 series conversion
to the 100 series after completion of four years of service in a peacekeeping mission
(see General Assembly resolution 52/216 of 22 December 1997, section III.C).

37. In the view of the Department of Peacekeeping Operations, the situation has
resulted in a lack of career opportunities for staff holding appointments of limited
duration and has affected the Organization’s ability to attract the most highly
qualified candidates. However, the Advisory Committee points out that it was
never intended to create long-term career opportunities for staff recruited
under the 300 series. Furthermore, the compensation package was intended to
be attractive to staff recruited for short-term service.

38. The Advisory Committee is of the opinion that such a wholesale
conversion of staff would raise a number of policy issues, including, for
example, the net impact on the equitable geographical distribution of staff after
absorption of these personnel, the potential impact on the long-term
contractual obligations of the Organization (including the possible creation of a
special subseries of the 100 series) and the cost implications, including those
related to differences in the benefits package and the need for additional staff
in the Department of Peacekeeping Operations to administer the transfer.5
Moreover, in the opinion of the Committee, the discontinuation of the current
practice of employing mission staff under the 300 series represents, de facto, a
change in the scope of application of the 300 series, whether or not the actual
text of rule 301.1 should need to be amended. In this connection, the Committee
points out that, notwithstanding the prerogative of the Secretary-General to



12

A/58/759

effect changes in the Staff Rules, the General Assembly exercises legislative
oversight over all personnel matters, including the Staff Rules (see General
Assembly resolution 37/235 C of 21 December 1982 and Advisory Committee
report A/37/675). In keeping with the spirit of article XII of the Staff
Regulations, such a basic change in the application of the 300 series should be
reported to the Fifth Committee for its possible comment or further direction
before the change is finalized.

39. The Advisory Committee is therefore of the view that, in the light of the
policy issues to be addressed, the proposal for the conversion of peacekeeping
mission staff from the 300 series to the 100 series should be presented in a
comprehensive manner by the Secretary-General in the context of his report on
human resources management policies to be submitted to the General Assembly
at its fifty-ninth session. The Committee recommends that action by the
Secretariat on conversion from the 300 to the 100 series be deferred pending
consideration by the General Assembly as outlined above.

40. The Advisory Committee has informed the Secretariat of the foregoing and has
received assurances from the Secretariat that all action with regard to the conversion
of staff from the 300 series will be suspended pending discussion of this issue in the
General Assembly.

41. In this connection, the Advisory Committee was informed that some 2,600
local and international staff members will have completed three years and 1,150 will
have completed four years by the end of 2004. The General Assembly may wish to
give policy guidance on whether or not to suspend conversion of staff who
reach the four-year ceiling between March and December 2004 pending such
discussions as it may wish to have on this issue (see para. 39 above).

42. The Advisory Committee notes that some peacekeeping missions include
provisions for national language (interpreters) and administrative and clerical
personnel to support civilian police. The Committee requested clarification on
arrangements for support to civilian police personnel in terms of secretarial/clerical
support and interpreters and information on the ratios used to determine the needs
for civilian police support. The Committee was informed that the Department of
Peacekeeping Operations does not apply a ratio for determining administrative
support to any mission component. Secretarial/clerical support is provided to the
Chief Police Commissioner and his/her Deputy, but not to subordinate staff.
Nevertheless, in practice, peacekeeping missions try to accommodate the needs of
their civilian police component, to the extent possible and where operationally
required, by providing interpreters/drivers. The Committee believes that there is a
need to establish standards in this regard.

43. Some missions propose to regularize under the support component individual
contracts on special service agreements. These contracts would be converted into
fixed-term contracts under the 100 series for national staff in areas such as
engineering, communications, information technology, general service, transport,
finance and personnel. The proposed conversion of contracts is explained on the
basis of the continuous nature of these functions (see A/58/640, para. 12). The
Advisory Committee requested clarification on why functions proposed for
conversion to national General Service posts could not remain, as previously,
outsourced.



13

A/58/759

44. With regard to the definition of continuing functions in peacekeeping missions,
the Advisory Committee was informed upon enquiry that in the view of the
Department of Peacekeeping Operations continuing functions are those that are
necessary for the day-to-day running of peacekeeping operations. The applicable
posts are included in the organizational charts of the missions and disclosed in the
budget proposals. Even though peacekeeping is expected to be temporary in nature,
many established missions have been in existence for over 10 years. It has become
apparent over the years that there is a continuing operational need for additional
personnel to perform some of these functions. Since there were no posts available
and/or approved upon request and other types of contracts were time-limited, these
requirements were met through the hiring of individuals on procurement contracts
without any benefits, such as annual and sick leave, medical insurance coverage and
pension fund participation. In the opinion of the Department of Peacekeeping
Operations, this is an inappropriate mechanism for employing personnel over long
periods of time. Now that attention has been drawn to this practice, the Department
has initiated corrective action by conducting a functional review for these missions,
and the 2004/05 budget proposals for some missions provide for additional posts to
cover the contractual staff.

45. The Advisory Committee is of the opinion that, in a number of instances,
the services could be outsourced instead of employing individuals as staff
members or issuing them special service contracts. In this connection, there
should be recognition of the difference between manual-type labour and the
provision of specialized or professional services, and of the fact that special
service agreements were designed for the latter.

46. The Advisory Committee notes that, in a number of cases, outsourced
services and related human resources are supplied by commercial enterprises;
it would be the responsibility of those enterprises to provide social benefits to
their staff consistent with local legislation and practice. Where commercial
establishments are not involved, the mission could consider entering into
contractual arrangements with one, on the understanding that it would employ
staff currently employed under special service agreements. The Committee
underlines the necessity for the Secretariat to develop a coherent,
comprehensive and cost-effective policy on outsourcing for peacekeeping
missions in implementation of General Assembly resolution 55/232 of 23
December 2000 (see also paras. 92-93 below). In the meantime, it will make
recommendations on a case-by-case basis, bearing in mind the considerations
referred to above.

47. The Advisory Committee notes that neither the organizational charts of the
peacekeeping missions annexed to the budget documents nor the main text of the
budget proposals provide any information on the existing staff resources. The
Committee requests that in the future the existing staff resources and the
proposed additional posts be shown in the organizational charts of the missions
for each organizational unit.

United Nations Volunteers

48. The Advisory Committee recalls its comments and observations in its report on
the subject of United Nations Volunteers in peacekeeping operations (see A/55/874,
paras. 41-45). In the view of the Committee, the Secretariat should continue to



14

A/58/759

make efforts to obtain the services of volunteers for peacekeeping activities to
supplement the use of international staff, making greater use of them in
substantive and technical areas, such as electoral activities, human rights,
communications, public information and language services.

D. Operational costs

Assets management

49. The Board of Auditors has noted delays in the write-off and disposal process
and the steady accumulation of ageing equipment in many missions over the past
few years. In 2002/03, progress was made in the write-off and disposal of obsolete
assets, but the majority of items written off by 30 June 2003 had already been
pending write-off as at 30 June 2002. The Advisory Committee shares the views
of the Board on property write-off and emphasizes the need for the Secretariat
to implement its policies on asset management, keeping in mind the financial
interests of the Organization, as well as the need to identify and remedy the
factors causing delays in the write-off and disposal process (see A/58/5, vol. II,
chap. II, paras. 49-53). The Committee trusts that the Department of
Peacekeeping Operations will ensure that all missions implement an assets
replacement programme in a cost-effective manner and in strict compliance
with the guidelines on life expectancy of assets. The Committee requests the
Board of Auditors to keep the issue under review.

50. The Advisory Committee is concerned about the transfer to the United
Nations Logistics Base at Brindisi, Italy, of vehicles that may no longer be
operational or useful in other missions and the possibility that excessive
maintenance costs may be incurred in respect of those vehicles. For example, in
UNOMIG, it is proposed to replace the fleet of armoured vehicles, which have had
chronic service problems, with more reliable ballistic vehicles and ship the non-
operational vehicles to the Logistics Base. The Committee also draws the
attention of the Secretariat to the need to analyse whether it is cost-effective to
transfer vehicles with high mileage to other missions, taking into account the
cost of freight. For example, vehicles that had been driven over 100,000 miles were
transferred from the United Nations Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina (UNMIBH)
to MINURSO and UNMEE.

51. The management of inventory is still a serious problem in some missions. The
Advisory Committee notes that in the current period some progress has been made
in the management of peacekeeping inventories. Revised guidelines on the
compilation of year-end inventory reports have been issued; asset management
policies and procedures have been established; and the training of property control
officers and secretaries of local property survey boards has been effected (see
A/58/705, para. 29).

52. The Advisory Committee notes that the inventory control of field missions and
of the strategic deployment stocks is, however, expected to improve with the
development and implementation of the Galileo system, which replaced the field
assets control system (ibid., para. 30). The Galileo system is designed to provide
information for the management of all peacekeeping engineering assets from a
single database. The system would be implemented in all peacekeeping missions by
the end of June 2004. In addition, the Department of Peacekeeping Operations has



15

A/58/759

developed and issued a revised Liquidation Manual, which incorporates the
guidelines on disposal methods in conformity with the revised Financial Regulation
and Rules of the United Nations (see A/58/5, vol. II, chap. II., para. 54). The
Committee intends to review the progress made in inventory management in
the context of its review of the performance reports of the missions for the
period 2003/04.

53. On the management of ground transportation and spare parts, the Advisory
Committee was provided with information on efficiencies gained in the management
of the current spare-parts inventory. The Department of Peacekeeping Operations is
planning to introduce a fleet management system (Saturn) that would provide full
capability to analyse the consumption of and the procurement lead time for the
entire range of spare parts. This would require the fleet management system to be
closely linked to the procurement system (see A/58/705, para. 31).

54. The Advisory Committee commends the missions for introducing
improvements in ground transportation management, including initiatives such
as the vehicle CarLog system, safe driving courses, vehicle winterization
programmes, the suspension of licences for drunk driving, the application of
maintenance schedules and strict enforcement of administrative instructions.
The Committee trusts that these measures will be introduced in all missions
and that they will result in a reduction of vehicle accidents. In this connection,
the Committee notes that in some, but not all, missions the accident rate has
gone down. The Committee is of the view that losses to the United Nations due
to gross negligence directly attributable to mission staff should result in the
staff involved being held accountable and in appropriate penalties being
imposed.

Air transportation

55. In its general report on peacekeeping operations of 4 April 2003, the Advisory
Committee recommended that the Board of Auditors expand its audit of air
operations to ascertain whether an effective and adequate capacity was in place in
peacekeeping operations to plan, manage and monitor the configuration and
utilization of air assets (see A/57/722, paras. 108-109). The Committee also
requested the Secretariat to examine and clarify the various methods for costing
block hours, together with the relative merits of commercial hiring versus letter-of-
assist arrangements. The Committee had noted extensive variances in the missions
between planned flight hours and the hours actually flown.

56. The Board of Auditors has coordinated its work on a comprehensive review of
air operations with the Office of Internal Oversight Services. The Internal Audit
Division of the Office of Internal Oversight Services has focused on air safety, while
the Board has focused on air assets. The Board noted a substantial reduction in air
operations expenditure. As at 30 June 2003, there was an underexpenditure of $59.1
million (22 per cent) of the appropriated funds of $270.2 million for air operations.
The Board noted that the underexpenditure was due mainly to improvements that
were made in the 2002/03 period in managing air operations. For example, the
average cost per flight hour was reduced from $2,754 in 2001/02 to $2,139 in
2002/03, or 22 per cent (see A/58/5, vol. II, chap. II, para. 119). In this connection,
the Advisory Committee points out that, although in some cases averaging of
the cost of flight hours irrespective of the type of aircraft might give a general



16

A/58/759

picture of savings or overruns, in other cases it may be misleading. The
Committee requests the Department of Peacekeeping Operations to refine the
methodology so that a more realistic result is achieved.

57. For the period 2002/03, the actual number of flight hours (45,501) was lower
than the number of budgeted hours (89,684) by 44,183 hours (49 per cent). The
Advisory Committee believes that this may have been due to overbudgeting of
mission requirements rather than a rationalization of scheduled flights. The
Committee endorses the Board’s recommendation that the Department of
Peacekeeping Operations continue its efforts to better formulate the air
operations budget to make it more reflective of actual operations and continue
its initiatives to renegotiate air operations contracts with a view to paying only
for flight hours utilized (ibid., paras. 120-121).

58. The Advisory Committee welcomes the introduction of a new cost
structure for aircraft contracts. In response to the Committee’s request, the
specification of block hours and extra hours has been removed from most
future contracts. The new cost structure is calculated on a base cost (the
contractor’s cost for providing aircraft and crews) and cost for flying hours;
however, certain contracts may still have to be entered into on the basis of block
hours in conformity with the commercial industry’s approach (ibid., para. 120).
Paragraphs 122, 128, 133, 135 and 136 of the Board’s report include information on
actions taken by the Department of Peacekeeping Operations to improve the
management of air operations. The Committee requests that the Board continue
to monitor the progress made by the Department in the management of air
operations.

59. In paragraphs 145 to 148 of its report, the Board comments on the use of an
executive jet in one mission (UNMEE) and recommends in this regard that the
mission review the need and the cost-effectiveness of utilizing an executive jet as
compared with a propeller aircraft and charter flights. The Advisory Committee has
provided additional details on the UNMEE aircraft in its report on the UNMEE
budget (A/58/759/Add.8). The Committee recalls that executive jets have been
approved for other missions (e.g., UNAMSIL, MONUC and the United Nations
Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA)). Currently, there are a total of four
executive jets deployed in missions (one in UNMEE, two in MONUC and one in
UNAMA). The Committee reiterates its request that all missions using
executive jets continue to keep under review the need and cost-effectiveness of
using such aircraft. This review should be undertaken in the context of the
monitoring by the missions of the configuration of their air assets in the light of
changing operational needs and the mission environment, and the use of the
executive jet should be fully justified. The Committee recommends that the
Board continue to monitor this matter.

60. Regarding air operations regulations, upon request, the Advisory Committee
was briefed on the changes in the policy for transporting passengers and cargo. The
policy on passengers and cargo aircraft is distinct from the policy on the 30-person
limit established by the Office of the United Nations Security Coordinator, which is
discussed below. The policy establishes that the practice of carrying United Nations
personnel as passengers aboard aircraft type-certified for cargo only is a violation of
safety-critical international civil aviation requirements. Missions have been
requested to take action in consultation with the Department of Peacekeeping



17

A/58/759

Operations to modify their air fleets in a manner consistent with International Civil
Aviation Organization regulations.

61. The impacts of the passenger/cargo aircraft policy outlined above on the
missions’ air fleets are as follows:

(a) MINURSO, UNMEE and UNOMIG: the replacement of one AN-26
fixed-wing cargo aircraft with one AN-24 fixed-wing passenger aircraft at minimal
cost impact for each of the missions;

(b) MONUC: no changes to its fleet are necessary, as the policy is being
implemented by rearranging the tasking of the existing fleet;

(c) UNAMSIL: four additional medium rotary-wing aircraft, with an option
for up to four additional medium rotary-wing aircraft (MI-8 MTV) to replace
passenger capability currently provided by the MI-26 heavy cargo rotary-wing
aircraft. This change has cost implications.

For the other active missions, there is no impact resulting from this policy change.
The policy has no effect on chartering aircraft for contingent emplacement, rotations
and repatriations.

62. On 30 January 2004, in the context of the malicious acts insurance policy for
2004, the Office of the United Nations Security Coordinator informed all designated
officials that no more than 30 United Nations system staff may fly on any one
aircraft. The instruction applies to all civilian employees hired by the Department of
Peacekeeping Operations. Categories of civilian personnel governed by the 30-
person limit include United Nations international staff (including staff of United
Nations agencies, funds and programmes), United Nations local staff, United
Nations contractors, external auditors from Member States undertaking audits of the
United Nations system, experts, local and international consultants in receipt of
mission subsistence allowance or daily subsistence allowance and other official
visitors working for the United Nations system. The restriction also applies with
regard to commercial flights that operate in and out of a mission area and includes
staff members on leave or official travel. However, the limit does not apply to
military personnel and civilian police, with the exception of those military and
civilian police personnel employed by the United Nations under contract. Therefore,
it would not apply to United Nations-chartered flights that operate within theatre for
the movement of military and civilian police personnel and flights chartered for
rotation purposes to and from theatre and troop-contributing countries. The
restriction that no more than 30 United Nations system passengers may fly on one
aircraft is in effect worldwide, including within countries and mission areas.

63. The Advisory Committee requested detailed information on the air fleet by
mission, including the number, type and model of aircraft under letter-of-assist
arrangements and commercial lease. The detailed information on aircraft deployed
in peacekeeping missions as at 29 February 2004 is provided in annex IV to the
present report.

Procurement and contract management

64. The Board of Auditors has reiterated its previous recommendation on the need
to promulgate and implement a code of ethics and institute the signing of
declarations of independence by procurement personnel. The Advisory Committee



18

A/58/759

stresses that there is also a need to avoid conflicts of interest in the
procurement cycle by maintaining separation of duties for all staff involved in
procurement actions. The Committee agrees that the matter has been pending
for too long and should be expedited and finalized by the Administration (see
A/58/5, vol. II, chap. II, paras. 158-161).

65. Moreover, the Advisory Committee is concerned that, as pointed out by
the Board, at a number of missions (UNAMSIL, the United Nations Mission of
Support in East Timor (UNMISET), UNDOF and MONUC) the staff associated
with the procurement process were not aware of the procurement guidelines.
The Board also found that there appeared to be a lack of qualified procurement
professionals at missions and that this gap could have a negative effect on the
economy, quality and timeliness of procurement actions and the fairness, integrity
and transparency of the procurement process. At the time of the audit, in several
missions (e.g., UNAMSIL, UNMISET, UNOMIG and MONUC) procurement
training plans had not been developed and sufficient training had not been provided
to other than chief procurement officers (ibid., paras. 158-163, and 168). The
Committee has commented on many occasions on the deficiencies in field
procurement (see, for example, A/57/772, para. 120, A/56/887, paras. 56-60, and
A/55/874, paras. 47 and 49). The Committee stresses that the administration
should redouble its efforts to comply with the recommendations of the Board.
All staff associated with the procurement process should be thoroughly familiar
with the procurement guidelines. The process of evaluating the effectiveness of
procurement training should also be improved.

66. The Board reiterated its recommendations on the need for missions to prepare
procurement plans, to submit these plans in a timely manner to Headquarters in
order to expedite the completion of an overall procurement plan, to take
procurement actions with reference to their procurement plans and to decrease the
procurement lead times to a reasonable level (A/58/5, vol. II, chap. II, paras. 172,
174 and 177). The Board also determined that in some missions (e.g., UNMISET,
UNOMIG and MONUC) prospective vendors were registered on vendor rosters
without being fully pre-qualified and that the Procurement Division had not
evaluated prospective vendors on the basis of the most recent financial statements
when the vendors applied for registration. The Advisory Committee cautions
against registering vendors without proper pre-qualification, as inviting
companies with unknown experience and performance could seriously damage
the transparency of the procurement process, hinder equal opportunity for all
other successfully evaluated and registered companies and create significant
delays in the normal registration process. The Board of Auditors has reiterated its
recommendation that missions should compile assessments of progress and final
performance of vendors in order to prevent situations in which contracts are
maintained, extended and/or renewed in the absence of vendor evaluations (ibid.,
paras. 179-185 and 190-192).

67. The Procurement Division is now involved in the appointment of procurement
officers at various missions, reviewing and giving clearance to applications for
procurement field positions and training field staff at Headquarters for periods of up
to three months. Furthermore, the Committee understands that under the policy of
rotation, consideration is being given to posting chief procurement officers from the
Procurement Division. The Advisory Committee welcomes these developments.



19

A/58/759

68. The Advisory Committee notes from paragraphs 169 to 171, 178, 182, 186 and
193 of the Board’s report that for the current period the Procurement Division of the
Department of Management and the Department of Peacekeeping Operations have
begun to take actions in order to address many of the problems pointed out by the
Board. The Committee requests that the Board keep these actions under review
during its regular audits.

Rations contracts

69. The Advisory Committee paid particular attention to the issue of rations. In
some missions, such as UNMEE, problems experienced in the start-up phase were
subsequently resolved. The Committee stresses that the primary consideration
should be the timely delivery of fresh, high-quality food in accordance with
established standards for the troops in a manner that is cost-effective for the
Organization.

70. The general policy for delivery of rations by ground transportation is that the
contractor is responsible for delivery to unit locations. The Advisory Committee was
informed that this policy was not new and had been implemented on delivery of
rations by ground transportation in UNMISET, UNMEE, UNAMSIL, UNMIL, the
United Nations Preventive Deployment Force (UNPREDEP), the United Nations
Protection Force (UNPROFOR) and the United Nations Angola Verification
Mission/United Nations Observer Mission in Angola (UNAVEM/MONUA). It also
forms part of the contractual requirements for rations for the new peacekeeping
missions in Côte d’Ivoire, the Sudan, Haiti, Burundi and Cyprus. In the Middle East
missions, owing to the relative simplicity of support arrangements for a limited
number of contingents, the United Nations has maintained its own warehouse and
carried out bulk-breaking, repacking and local distribution. With the potential
expansion of the United Nations Peacekeeping Force in Cyprus (UNFICYP), a full
turnkey service is planned, giving responsibility for rations delivery to the
contractor.

71. The Advisory Committee was further informed that in the past the contractor
for UNAVEM/MONUA had successfully implemented the air transportation
arrangements for rations. Currently, no air deliveries are being carried out by
contractors in the existing missions. However, there is an optional provision for air
delivery of rations in the recently established contracts for UNMIL and MONUC, as
well as in the statements of work for the rations requirements for projected missions
in the Sudan, Côte d’Ivoire, Haiti and Burundi. This option can be activated when
and if circumstances so dictate.

72. In the opinion of the Advisory Committee, air delivery of rations by the
contractor is not always the best option. For example, in the case of MONUC the
Board of Auditors noted a proposed amendment to the rations contract that would
transfer the responsibility for actual transportation of rations by the contractor to the
final point of consumption and not to the first point of entry, with the objective of
improving the quality of service while freeing up Mission air resources for other
tasks. Owing to the delay or cancellation of flights, limited air resources and other
limitations within the supply chain, the Mission had experienced problems regarding
the delivery of rations, which sometimes reached the point of consumption in
dilapidated or spoiled condition (ibid., paras. 196-199). The Mission would



20

A/58/759

therefore like to go forward with door-to-door delivery of rations by the contractor
by air.

73. The Advisory Committee is not convinced by this argument. It is not
understandable why a contractor with limited air resources will be better able
to deliver without spoilage than the Mission, with its large air fleet. Taking into
account the Mission’s air assets and the fact that their utilization rate has been
far below capacity, the Committee is of the view that the problem may be a
matter of improper management. Furthermore, notwithstanding the
information given to the Committee that preliminary data provided by the
current contractor indicated that the contractor’s prices would not exceed the
cost otherwise incurred through the use of United Nations air assets, the
Committee is concerned that this alternative may prove more expensive than
anticipated. If, indeed, spoilage is a problem, then in the long run — that is to
say, in future contracts — the costs incurred by the contractor may be passed
on to the Mission anyway.

74. For these reasons and other considerations given in its report on MONUC,
the Advisory Committee maintains its position that modalities for the delivery
of rations by air should be the subject of a cost-benefit analysis.

Training

75. Total resources proposed for training of civilian staff in peacekeeping for the
period 2004/05 amount to $5.8 million, as compared with $8.9 million for 2003/04,
or 34.8 per cent less. Table 11 of the overview report (A/58/705) shows the proposed
training resources as compared to the civilian staff costs by mission. Training
resources for 2004/05 represent an average of 1.4 per cent of civilian staff costs, as
compared with 2.3 per cent for 2003/04. The Advisory Committee points out that
the training estimates provided in the individual peacekeeping budgets for 2004/05,
as for the current period, were not clearly stated, as the costs of training-related
travel and training supplies and equipment were subsumed under various
miscellaneous budget lines. In a number of proposed budgets, the Committee had
difficulty determining which travel budget proposals related to training and which
related to official travel. Training of personnel is an important component of the
proposed budget of a mission; the Committee reiterates that all resources
requested for training should be clearly and comprehensively treated without
being subsumed under other objects of expenditure. Such a procedure should
separate training-related travel from other official travel and thus clear up
confusion in this area.

76. In this connection, the Advisory Committee notes from paragraph 245 of the
report of the Board of Auditors that training expenditure for the 2002/03 period
included only tuition fees and daily subsistence allowance. Expenditure on costs
such as salary, working hours spent on training and training facilities were not
included. The Department of Peacekeeping Operations has not been able to establish
those costs with accuracy. The Board indicated that the reporting format could be
improved in the areas of benchmarking, comparison, control and training
monitoring. The Committee stresses the need to have adequate systems for
budgeting and reporting on the total expenditure for training.

77. As previously indicated by the Advisory Committee, it appears that in some
missions individual staff members might be receiving multiple training courses or



21

A/58/759

repetitive training for similar skills that might not be related to their current or
future areas of responsibility in peacekeeping missions (see A/57/772, para. 129).
The Committee stresses the need to evaluate the effectiveness of training
programmes in order to assess whether or not they have met individual and
organizational goals and to ensure that the staff performance appraisal system
is properly used to identify training requirements and evaluate achievements of
individual staff members. There is also a need to monitor the reassignment of
trained personnel to avoid the need for additional training (see also A/58/5,
vol. II, chap. II, para. 259).

78. For the current period, the Advisory Committee notes the progress made
by some missions (e.g., MONUC and UNMEE) to ensure that only staff
members who require a specific type of training or upgrading of specialized
skills are nominated for external training. The Committee also welcomes the
steps taken by missions to use videoconferencing facilities to conduct training
activities for delivery of in-mission courses in a cost-effective manner (see
A/58/705, para. 32). Nonetheless, the Committee points out that as more staff
become trained, the requirements for training should decrease, and thus also
the requirements for training-related travel, particularly in missions that are
no longer growing or are in the process of downsizing.

Official travel

79. Travel constitutes a major item of expenditure for peacekeeping operations and
continues to be an area of concern to the Advisory Committee. The performance
reports for 2002/03 show a persistent overexpenditure for travel, ranging from 4.5
per cent in UNMIK to nearly 200 per cent in UNAMSIL and nearly 300 per cent in
MONUC. While in a number of cases such overexpenditures can be attributed to
developments in the mission (see the Advisory Committee’s reports on the
individual missions), and while estimates for official travel have been reduced in a
number of missions, the presentation of the requests continues to lack precision and
clarity. In this connection, a number of the concerns expressed by the
Committee in paragraphs 123-124 of its last general report on peacekeeping
operations (A/57/772) remain valid — for example, regarding the need to state
a specific purpose for intended travel, which would lead to a measurable result
in fulfilling stated objectives. Moreover, in justifying some types of travel, the
request should include a reference to and/or an explanation of how the estimate
took into account the results of previous travel for that purpose; travel requests
should also identify how improved methods of communication have been taken
into account.

80. During its consideration of the submissions for 2004/05 and the performance
reports for 2002/03, the Advisory Committee paid particular attention to travel for
administrative purposes from Headquarters to the missions. With greater
delegation of authority to the missions and the consequent strengthening of
management and improved communications, including videoconferencing and
e-mail, this type of travel should diminish, not increase. In this connection, with
regard to MONUC, the Committee called attention to the fact that as the authority
and responsibility for the management of missions’ financial resources are delegated
to the Chief Administrative Officer, all requests for travel must be cleared by that
official, who is able to refuse any unforeseen travel requests that lack adequate
justification.



22

A/58/759

81. In the past, the Advisory Committee has noted that travel provisions relating to
the mandate of missions for political consultations and within the mission area
usually account for only a small proportion of the travel resources requested (the
bulk being for training and management purposes). As indicated in paragraph 79
above, travel requests often lack precision and clarity; it frequently appeared to the
Committee that such requests were more in the nature of contingency plans or de
facto reserves for otherwise unbudgeted expenditure. Some mission budgets are
used to cover the travel costs of Headquarters officials on matters not directly
related to the missions (e.g., MONUC). The Committee cautions that the use of
peacekeeping budgets to cover “hidden” Headquarters expenditure is not
consistent with transparent budgeting and should cease.

E. Other matters

Delegation of authority

Procurement

82. With respect to procurement, the Department of Peacekeeping Operations has
been working closely with the Department of Management to finalize new field
procurement arrangements aimed at enhancing local procurement in the field. These
arrangements would increase the level of procurement authority in the field from
$200,000 to as high as $1 million, depending on the size and capacity of the
individual mission. The arrangements are predominantly commodity-based and
introduce the concepts of “core requirements” (goods procured by the mission) and
“special requirements” (goods procured by the Procurement Division at
Headquarters). The new arrangements will be issued in the near future in an
administrative instruction currently being prepared by the Department of
Management, in consultation with the Department of Peacekeeping Operations.

Human resources

83. On issues relating to delegation of authority to the Department of
Peacekeeping Operations for human resources management, upon enquiry the
Advisory Committee was informed that, pursuant to General Assembly resolution
53/221 of 7 April 1999, section IV, paragraph 2, the Office of Human Resources
Management and the Department of Peacekeeping Operations are taking into
account the General Assembly’s request to ensure, before delegating authority, that a
well-designed mechanism of accountability, including the necessary internal
monitoring and control procedures, as well as training, are put in place. Accordingly,
the Office of Human Resources Management has initiated the design and
development of a system for monitoring delegated authority. The first cycle of on-
site visits to peacekeeping operations took place in 2002/03, allowing the Office of
Human Resources Management to develop the monitoring strategy and
methodology, tools and instruments, and at the same time to establish benchmarks
for human resources management. Each monitoring mission resulted in a
comprehensive report, containing practical recommendations for improvement. A
report on the initial experience will be submitted to the General Assembly at its
fifty-ninth session. The Committee will review these matters for the fifty-ninth
session of the General Assembly.



23

A/58/759

84. The Advisory Committee was informed that the Office of Human Resources
Management is currently involved in a large-scale capacity-building programme in
all aspects of performance management in peacekeeping missions, including training
of supervisors in competency-based performance management, incorporating work
planning, goal setting, giving feedback and appraising performance and interviewing
skills. The Office of Human Resources Management intends to elaborate, in
cooperation with the Department of Peacekeeping Operations, the scope and time
lines of further enabling the field missions, providing them with tools for self-
monitoring and ensuring the central role of the Office of Human Resources
Management in setting the policies and guidelines in respect of human resources
management and monitoring their observance and implementation.

85. In the area of personnel entitlements, the Department of Peacekeeping
Operations delegated authority in 2003 to missions to approve entitlements for home
leave travel, family visit travel and travel allowance. The Department has also
delegated authority to 15 special political and peacekeeping missions for limited
human resource actions using the human resources module of IMIS. In this exercise,
limitations were encountered in access to IMIS in the field and the capacity of the
users. Necessary steps are being taken to train and monitor staff in this regard. The
maintenance team for IMIS has also been requested to address limitations in access
in the field. It is currently planned that this delegation of authority and IMIS will be
implemented in two more missions in the near future.

86. In the area of personnel recruitment, UNMIK and UNMISET continue to
exercise the authority delegated to them in 2000 for the recruitment of international
staff. However, no further delegation of recruitment authority has been extended to
other missions. The Department of Peacekeeping Operations is developing the
necessary prerequisites to enable the field missions to assume such functions. These
include the completion of standard operating guidelines, the deployment of qualified
recruitment experts to the field and the institution of appropriate monitoring and
evaluation mechanisms at Headquarters. However, the recruitment policy has been
revised to give the field more authority in the selection process for vacancies. The
Advisory Committee welcomes these developments and awaits the speedy
application of widespread delegation of authority for recruitment.

87. The Advisory Committee is of the view that when management posts in
the field are upgraded owing to increased delegation of authority, there should
be a demonstrable offsetting adjustment to the configuration of staff at
Headquarters. The Committee intends to follow up on this matter.

Staff mobility

88. On staff mobility, the Advisory Committee was provided with additional
information on steps that have been taken to implement the rotation of staff between
Headquarters and the field. The principle of broader rotation between Headquarters
and the field is supported by the Department of Peacekeeping Operations. Under the
new staff selection system implemented in May 2002, mission service is counted in
the context of stipulated maximum post occupancy and for the lateral moves
required for promotion to the P-5 level. For recruitment to the Department of
Peacekeeping Operations, mission experience is also one of the elements in the
evaluation criteria stipulated for most Professional positions, and it is a factor taken
into consideration during the selection process.



24

A/58/759

89. In addition, many field staff have served at Headquarters over the past few
years on temporary assignments, either as replacements for Headquarters staff who
are on mission or to fill posts temporarily pending completion of the formal
recruitment process. For the past two years, a limited staff exchange programme
between the Department of Peacekeeping Operations and the field has also been
implemented using funding approved in the support account, which covers about
five exchanges of approximately three months each year. The Advisory Committee
was informed that, for the Secretariat as a whole, tools such as the vacancy
compendium and the rapid deployment roster may be considered additional
mechanisms to encourage staff from Headquarters to serve in the field. The
Advisory Committee intends to take up this issue on the basis of the Secretary-
General’s report to be presented to the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth
session.

Liquidation of missions

90. The Advisory Committee notes from paragraphs 267-269 of the Board’s report
that the Department of Peacekeeping Operations would take the drawdown strategy
plan and liquidation strategy of UNAMSIL into account as it develops its global
strategy for satisfying anticipated demands for material and services in new
peacekeeping missions in the West Africa region. The Committee was provided with
a detailed liquidation plan for UNAMSIL. The Committee trusts that lessons
learned in the liquidation of missions, will be applied in future liquidations of
other missions. The Committee recalls that it has stressed that numerous
problems have occurred in mission liquidation because of the lack of such skills
as budgeting, finance, accounting, procurement and inventory management
and that staff possessing those skills in missions under liquidation should be
retained and given the opportunity to serve in other missions, provided there
are functions to carry out in those missions (see, for example, A/57/772,
para. 139). The Committee has also indicated the need to have up-to-date
inventory, accounting and bank reconciliation systems throughout the mission
so that those who deal with mission liquidation will be working with an up-to-
date and accurate base of information (see A/56/887, para. 71). The Committee
intends to revert to these issues in the context of its future review of the
liquidation of UNAMSIL.

91. Upon enquiry, the Advisory Committee was informed that, with regard to the
retention of staff during mission liquidation, the established policy was to assign
priority to the placement of personnel from downsized or liquidating missions
against vacancies in other peacekeeping operations. In this regard, the Directors of
Administration/Chief Administrative Officers of the liquidating missions are
requested to review the performance of staff to identify those who should be
retained in the Department of Peacekeeping Operations and to provide information
on their level, occupational group, nationality, gender and expected date of release
for consideration for redeployment. As staff members are to receive priority in the
selection process, vacancies in new and existing field missions are to be advertised
only in cases where this pool of staff does not yield suitable candidates. This policy
was used for the liquidation of UNIKOM and the United Nations Office of the
Humanitarian Coordinator in Iraq. In the case of UNIKOM, 60 out of a total of 76
staff members were placed in this manner. The Department of Peacekeeping
Operations is currently placing staff members of the United Nations Office of the



25

A/58/759

Humanitarian Coordinator in Iraq, which completed its liquidation on 29 February
2004.

Security

92. In UNOMIG, additional security guards were requested to be funded from
general temporary assistance funds. These personnel would assist in the supervision
of the Mission’s private security guards. The Advisory Committee requested
clarification on the outsourcing and management of security, including which areas
of the Mission are outsourced and which are under direct United Nations control
through staff. The Committee has raised the issue of outsourcing security services in
peacekeeping operations on several occasions in the past.

93. The Advisory Committee was informed that the matter continues to be
discussed at interdepartmental security coordination meetings held on a weekly
basis. General Assembly resolution 55/232 of 23 December 2000, on outsourcing
practices in the United Nations, stipulates that certain criteria for outsourcing such
services need to be met. The criteria are cost-effectiveness and efficiency, safety and
security, maintaining the international character of the Organization and maintaining
the integrity of procedures and processes.

94. The Advisory Committee was informed that while programme managers are
requested to ensure that the four criteria stated above are met when evaluating
whether or not an activity is suitable for outsourcing, there are special provisions for
safety and security. Paragraph 4 (b) of resolution 55/232 states that “activities that
could compromise the safety and security of delegates, staff and visitors may not be
considered for outsourcing”. As a direct result of this policy, a number of
organizations, agencies, departments and offices within the United Nations system
have initiated action to seek budgetary allocations to replace contracted security
personnel “so that the outsourced activities, which may compromise the safety and
security of delegations, staff and visitors, will be phased out in due course”
(A/57/185, para. 3).

95. The Advisory Committee was informed that several peacekeeping missions
have routinely hired private companies to provide “low-level security services”.
This includes access control and entrance guards, receptionists and perimeter patrols
at mission premises and facilities. However, the Department of Peacekeeping
Operations has made it clear that the outsourcing of security services in the field
should meet the primary security requirement, which is the provision of the highest
security standards to mission personnel and visiting delegations. Therefore, the
contracting of local security services is always based on an in-depth evaluation
carried out under the responsibility of the Head of Mission with a view to ensuring
that it is linked to clearly identified operational requirements and expected to
provide an increased level of protection to United Nations personnel and property.

96. The approach followed by the Department of Peacekeeping Operations, the
Advisory Committee was informed, is consistent with the responsibility and
accountability vested in the Under-Secretary-General for Peacekeeping Operations
and the respective Heads of Missions with regard to the security and safety of
peacekeeping personnel deployed in the field. The role of the Department of
Peacekeeping Operations is limited to filling the number of security officer positions
approved for each mission, after the Office of the United Nations Security
Coordinator conducts its security assessment of the mission area.



26

A/58/759

97. The Advisory Committee intends to revert to the issue of security in
peacekeeping missions when it considers the Secretary-General’s phase 2 report on
security, to be presented to the General Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. The
Committee requests that the question of the outsourcing of security services be
dealt with comprehensively in that report.

Rapid deployment capability

98. Rapid deployment capability is discussed in paragraphs 20 to 30 of the
Secretary-General’s report on the implementation of the recommendations of the
Special Committee on Peacekeeping Operations (A/58/694). The Advisory
Committee was provided, upon request, with updated information on the
implementation of rapid deployment capability, including the strategic deployment
stocks, rapid deployment rosters, standard operating procedures for rapid
deployment, results of rapid deployment exercises for staff at the United Nations
Logistics Base at Brindisi, Italy, and standby arrangements for troops.

99. With regard to strategic deployment stocks, a total of $4.1 million was allotted
to the United Nations Logistics Base from the original $141.546 million in strategic
deployment stocks resources. The allotment to the Logistics Base was made for the
procurement of goods and services that could be procured more economically at the
Logistics Base than at Headquarters. For example, the general temporary assistance
allotment was made to cover the costs of hiring temporary assistance to meet the
additional workload associated with implementing strategic deployment stocks. The
allotment for ground transportation was made to purchase miscellaneous spare parts
and consumables for strategic deployment stocks vehicles. In November 2003, an
additional $1.6 million was redeployed from the Supply Section of the Logistics
Support Division to the Logistics Base to meet the costs of shelving three new
warehouses (see also A/58/759/Add.9).

100. The Advisory Committee received information on the standby arrangements
for troops. Since February 2003, the United Nations Standby Arrangements System
team deployed military observers and staff officers in UNMIL, the United Nations
Peace-building Support Office in the Central African Republic and MINUCI.

101. The Advisory Committee was informed that in February 2003, the Department
of Peacekeeping Operations initiated development of the rapid deployment roster.
The purpose of the roster is to provide teams of experienced staff who could be
rapidly deployed for a period of up to three months to undertake critical tasks in the
start-up phase of a mission, mission enhancement or mission liquidation. As a result,
283 staff have been placed against 120 critical mission functions. This mechanism
has been used in the start-up of UNAMSIL, MINUCI and UNMIL. A lessons-
learned exercise has identified shortcomings, which will be taken into consideration
in improving the roster. The updated roster will be used for the prospective new
missions.

102. The standard operating procedures for rapid deployment are currently being
developed and are included in the 2004 work plan for the Department of
Peacekeeping Operations. The work plan was based on the evaluation made of the
first cycle of the rapid deployment roster, i.e., the planning and recruitment phase,
as well as the actual implementation of the mechanism and the lessons learned from
it. A new rapid deployment roster cycle, with improved police and administrative
guidelines, as well as detailed standard operating procedures, is being developed



27

A/58/759

with the assistance of the Peacekeeping Best Practices Unit. It will be ready for
launching at the conclusion of the current rapid deployment roster cycle, in May
2004.

103. The rapid deployment exercise held at the United Nations Logistics Base at
Brindisi, Italy, in January 2003 brought together 30 mission support personnel from
Headquarters and the field missions. The exercise was based on the deployment of a
complex multidimensional peacekeeping operation to a hypothetical country. The
exercise resulted in the further development of the integrated mission planning
process, the development of standard operating procedures for the request for pre-
mandate commitment authority, the initiation of standardized staffing templates and
the establishment of strategic deployment stocks capacity and delivery lead times.

Regional supply facilities

104. Upon enquiry, the Advisory Committee was informed about the concept of and
experience with the use of regional supply facilities, as well as future plans for
existing and upcoming missions. The Committee was assured that these supply
facilities are not intended to replace the United Nations Logistics Base at Brindisi,
Italy, as the primary maintenance base and that the Logistics Base will, in fact,
support the regional facilities. Extensive support was drawn from UNAMSIL during
the establishment of UNMIL. This included the provision of troops, equipment,
services such as rations and the temporary provision of specialist personnel. Similar
support will be drawn from UNAMSIL to support the establishment of the United
Nations Operation in Côte d’Ivoire (UNOCI), should this be required and provided
it can be achieved without jeopardizing the ability of UNAMSIL to continue to
discharge its mandated activities. Regional logistical strategies are under
consideration for West Africa, including the development of capabilities in UNMIL
and UNOCI, as well as retaining such capabilities in UNAMSIL where this makes
operational sense. However, the full potential of regionalization of support will be
realized only when some form of regional management structure is established. In
the case of the Sudan, the Department of Peacekeeping Operations is exploring the
possibility of utilizing the logistics potential of MONUC, located in Kigoma, United
Republic of Tanzania, and Entebbe, Uganda, to provide operational and logistical
support to United Nations peacekeepers in the Sudan and Burundi.

Notes

1 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-eighth Session, Supplement No. 5 (A/58/5).
2 Ibid., Fifty-eighth Session, Supplement No. 7 and corrigendum (A/58/7 and Corr.1).
3 Ibid.
4 Ibid., Forty-ninth Session, Supplement No. 30 (A/49/30).
5 The Committee was informed that six temporary posts would be required to manage the

conversion.



28

A/58/759

Annex I
Reports considered by the Advisory Committee on
Administrative and Budgetary Questions

1. Report of the Board of Auditors to the General Assembly on the accounts of
the United Nations peacekeeping operations for the financial period ending 30 June
2003 (A/58/5, vol. II, chap. II)a and report of the Secretary-General on the
implementation of the recommendations of the Board (A/58/737)

2. Reports of the Secretary-General on financial performance for the period from
1 July 2002 to 30 June 2003 and/or on proposed budgets for the period from 1 July
2004 to 30 June 2005 of the peacekeeping operations. The reports of the Advisory
Committee concerning the specific peacekeeping operations are presented as
addenda to the present report. The list below gives the symbols of the reports of the
Secretary-General on financial performance and on the proposed budget (or the
disposition of assets, where applicable) and the reports of the Committee in that
order:

(a) United Nations Observer Mission in Georgia (UNOMIG) (A/58/639,
A/58/640 and A/58/759/Add.1);

(b) United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara
(MINURSO) (A/58/642 and Corr.1, A/58/657 and A/58/759/Add.2);

(c) United Nations Mission in Sierra Leone (UNAMSIL) (A/58/660,
A/58/661 and A/58/759/Add.3);

(d) United Nations Peacekeeping Force in Cyprus (UNFICYP) (A/58/631,
A/58/644 and Corr.1 and A/58/759/Add.4);

(e) United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK)
(A/58/634, A/58/638 and A/58/759/Add.5);

(f) United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL) (A/58/637, A/58/659
and A/58/759/Add.6);

(g) United Nations Disengagement Observer Force (UNDOF) (A/58/641,
A/58/662 and A/58/759/Add.7);

(h) United Nations Mission in Ethiopia and Eritrea (UNMEE) (A/58/633,
A/58/658 and A/58/759/Add.8);

(i) United Nations Logistics Base at Brindisi, Italy (A/58/702, A/58/706 and
A/58/759/Add.9);

(j) Strategic deployment stocks (A/58/707 and A/58/759/Add.9);

(k) United Nations Organization Mission in the Democratic Republic of the
Congo (MONUC) (A/58/684, A/58/701 and A/58/759/Add.10);

(l) United Nations Mission in Bosnia and Herzegovina (UNMIBH)
(A/58/632, A/58/720 and A/58/759/Add.11);

(m) United Nations Iraq-Kuwait Observer Mission (UNIKOM) (A/58/630 and
A/58/759/Add.12);



29

A/58/759

(n) United Nations Mission of Support in East Timor (UNMISET)
(A/58/636, A/58/645 and A/58/759/Add.13)

3. Overview report of the Secretary-General on the financing of the United
Nations peacekeeping operations, covering performance for the period from 1 July
2002 to 30 June 2003 and the budget for the period from 1 July 2004 to 30 June
2005 (A/58/705)

4. Reports of the Secretary-General on peacekeeping matters on which the
Committee commented separately:

(a) Financial performance report on the budget for the support account for
peacekeeping operations for the period from 1 July 2002 to 30 June 2003 (A/58/703
and Add.1) and proposed budget for the support account for the period from 1 July
2004 to 30 June 2005 (A/58/715) (the report of the Advisory Committee is
contained in document A/58/760);

(b) Report of the Secretary-General on the Peacekeeping Reserve Fund
(A/58/724) and note by the Secretary-General on closed missions (A/58/723) (the
report of the Advisory Committee is contained in document A/58/732)

Notes

a See Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-eighth Session, Supplement No. 5 (A/58/5).



30

A/58/759

Annex II
Amounts owed to Member States for troop and contingent-
owned equipment costs

A. Amounts owed to Member States for troop costs as at
29 February 2004
(Thousands of United States dollars)

Mission
Payments made

during 2003
Amount due as at

29 February 2004 Paid up to

UNMIK 12 247 17 083 December 2002

UNFICYP 8 228 18 058 January 2003

UNDOF 15 341 4 715 October 2003

UNIFIL 31 897 9 131 October 2003

UNMISET 38 489 25 227 June 2003

MINURSO - 557 March 2002

UNAMSIL 210 986 51 431 October 2003

MONUC 73 526 44 674 October 2003

UNMEE 57 229 17 465 October 2003

UNMIL - 42 636 N/A

UNIKOM 5 800 - N/A

Total 453 743 230 977



31

A/58/759

B. Amounts owed to Member States for contingent-owned equipment
costs as at 29 February 2004
(Thousands of United States dollars)

Mission

Payments made
during the

calendar year 2004

Estimated amount
due as at

29 February 2004
Unliquidated

obligationsa
Claims certified

up tob

UNMIK - 11 963 4 088 December 2003

UNFICYP - 1 970 724 December 2003

UNDOF - 1 146 2 035 December 2003

UNIFIL - 2 842 8 057 December 2003

UNTAET/UNMISET - 42 602 66 122 December 2003

MINURSO - 27 421

UNAMSILc - 122 597 125 909 September 2003

MONUC - 45 780 105 559 September 2003

UNMEE - 33 711 42 116 November 2003

UNMIL - 1 434 15 185

UNOMIG - 367 386

UNIKOMd - 3 320 3 715

UNPREDEP - 2 588 -

UNAVEM/MONUA - 2 131 12 614

ONUMOZ - - -

UNSMIH/UNMIH - 9 988 -

UNOSOM - 15 907 -

UNPF/UNPROFOR - 2 257 -

UNTAES - - -

UNTAC - 22 796 -

MINURCA - 7 477 1 515

Total - 330 903 388 446

(Footnotes on following page)



32

A/58/759

(Footnotes to table)

______________
a Unliquidated obligations for the period up to 30 June 2004.
b UNTAET: memorandum of understanding to be signed for 1 out of 51 units.

UNMISET: memorandum of understanding to be signed for 4 out of 31 units.
MINURSO: memorandum of understanding to be signed for 1 out of 1 unit.
UNAMSIL: memorandum of understanding to be signed for 1 out of 1 unit.
MONUC: memorandum of understanding to be signed for 2 out of 66 units.
UNMIL: new Mission; no memorandum of understanding signed yet.
UNOMIG: memorandum of understanding to be signed for 1 out of 1 unit.
UNIKOM: memorandum of understanding to be signed for 1 unit; 2 units under old
methodology fully certified. 1 unit to be certified under old methodology.
UNPREDEP: all claims certified.
UNMIH: all claims certified.
UNOSOM: all claims certified.
UNPF/UNPROFOR: all claims certified.
UNTAC: all claims certified.
MINURCA: all claims certified.

c Estimates have decreased because of a decrease in mission factors, approved retroactively.
d The estimated amount owed has decreased from the amount last reported because two claims

under the old methodology were certified in full for amounts less than initially estimated,
and the amount owed on the remaining old methodology claim has been re-estimated
downward.



33

A/58/759

Annex III
Number of civilian personnel by mission and type
of personnel

Mission and period covered International Nationala
United Nations

Volunteers Total

MINURSO

Approved for 2003/04 300 113 — 413

Proposed for 2004/05 300 113 — 413

MONUC

Approved for 2003/04 938 1 299 419 2 656

Proposed for 2004/05 972 1 354 490 2 816

UNAMSIL

Approved for 2003/04 376 610 168 1 154

Proposed for 2004/05 336 556 147 1 039

UNDOF

Approved for 2003/04 40 92 — 132

Proposed for 2004/05 41 106 — 147

UNFICYP

Approved for 2003/04 45 105 — 150

Proposed for 2004/05 48 110 — 158

UNIFIL

Approved for 2003/04 124 305 — 429

Proposed for 2004/05 124 348 — 472

UNMEE

Approved for 2003/04 256 273 82 611

Proposed for 2004/05 256 273 82 611

UNMIK

Approved for 2003/04 1 049 3 130 250 4 429

Proposed for 2004/05 910 2 830 250 3 990

UNMIL

Approved for 2003/04 607 768 286 1 661

Proposed for 2004/05b 631 768 434 1 833

UNMISET

Approved for 2003/04 399 928 209 1 536

Proposed for 2004/05 120 133 20 273



34

A/58/759

Mission and period covered International Nationala
United Nations

Volunteers Total

UNOMIG

Approved for 2003/04 109 177 — 286

Proposed for 2004/05 114 209 — 323

Total

Approved for 2003/04 4 243 7 800 1 414 13 457

Proposed for 2004/05 3 552 6 687 1 423 11 662

a National personnel comprise national officer posts and national General Service posts.
b Preliminary estimates, pending the finalization of the 2004/05 budget.



35

A/58/759

Annex IV
Aircraft fleet deployed in peacekeeping missions: status
as at 29 February 2004

Type and model of aircraft

Mission
Number of
aircraft Type Model Type of lease

MINURSO 3 Rotary-wing MI-8 MTV Commercial

3 Fixed-wing AN-26 Commercial

UNMISET 1 Fixed-wing DHC-7 Commercial

1 Rotary-wing B-212 Commercial

1 Rotary-wing B-212 Commercial

2 Rotary-wing MI-8 MTV Commercial

2 Rotary-wing MI-8 MTV Commercial

2 Rotary-wing B-212 Letter of assist

UNFICYP 2 Rotary-wing H-500D/B-212 Letter of assist

UNIFIL 4 Rotary-wing AB-205 Letter of assist

UNMIL 1 Fixed-wing B-200 Commercial

1 Rotary-wing MI-8 MTV Commercial

5 Rotary-wing MI-8 MTV Commercial

2 Rotary-wing MI-26 Commercial

6 Rotary-wing MI-24 TT Letter of assist

8 Rotary-wing MI-8 MT Letter of assist

MONUC 3 Fixed-wing B-200R Commercial

2 Fixed-wing AN-24 Commercial

1 Fixed-wing AN-24 RV Commercial

2 Fixed-wing AN-26 Commercial

2 Fixed-wing L-100 Commercial

1 Fixed-wing L-100 Commercial

2 Fixed-wing L-100 Commercial

1 Fixed-wing HS125-JB Commercial

1 Fixed-wing HS125-JB Commercial

1 Fixed-wing B-727 Commercial

1 Fixed-wing L-100 Commercial

4 Fixed-wing IL-76 Commercial

2 Rotary-wing MI-8 MTV Commercial

1 Rotary-wing MI-26 Commercial

1 Rotary-wing MI-26 Commercial

7 Rotary-wing MI-8 MTV Commercial

3 Rotary-wing MI-8 MTV/MI-8 MT Commercial

4 Rotary-wing MI-25 Letter of assist



36

A/58/759

Type and model of aircraft

Mission
Number of
aircraft Type Model Type of lease

5 Rotary-wing MI-17 Letter of assist

5 Rotary-wing MI-17 Letter of assist

UNMIK 1 Rotary-wing MI-8 Commercial

1 Fixed-wing B-200 Commercial

UNOMIG 1 Fixed-wing AN-26 Commercial

1 Rotary-wing MI-8 Commercial

1 Rotary-wing MI-8 Commercial

UNAMSIL 1 Fixed-wing AN-72-100/Combi Commercial

1 Rotary-wing MI-26 T Commercial

2 Rotary-wing MI-8 MTV Commercial

2 Rotary-wing MI-8 MTV Commercial

1 Rotary-wing MI-8 MTV Commercial

2 Rotary-wing MI-26 T/D-136 Commercial

2 Rotary-wing MI-8 MTV Commercial

4 Rotary-wing MI-24 Letter of assist

4 Rotary-wing MI-8 MT Letter of assist

3 Rotary-wing SA-330 Letter of assist

UNMEE 1 Rotary-wing MI-8 MTV Commercial

4 Rotary-wing MI-8 MTV Commercial

2 Rotary-wing MI-8 MTV Commercial

2 Fixed-wing AN-26 Commercial

1 Fixed-wing HS-125-400 Commercial

2 Rotary-wing B-212 Letter of assist

1 Fixed-wing C160 Transall Letter of assist

1 Rotary-wing Puma SA-330 Letter of assist



37

A/58/759

Annex V
Provisions for rations by mission and financial period
(Thousands of United States dollars)

Mission
Expenditure

(2002/03)
Appropriation

(2003/04)
Proposed estimate

(2004/05)

MINURSO 1 018.0 1 130.0 1 058.4

MONUCa 11 681.2 15 071.7 24 497.2

UNAMSIL 30 203.3 25 864.0 7 610.3

UNDOF 2 139.6 2 715.0 2 420.0

UNFICYP 1 843.8 1 965.6 1 991.9

UNIFIL 6 646.9 4 472.0 5 235.6

UNIKOM 1 126.0 — —

UNMEE 8 815.0 7 600.0 8 224.3

UNMIBH — — —

UNMIK 91.7 21.7 17.5

UNMILb — 21 129.3 33 155.5

UNMISET 12 575.1 8 624.6 —

UNOMIGc 8.8 — —

Total 76 149.4 88 593.9 84 210.7

a Pertains to rations for military contingents only; excludes rations for the disarmament,
demobilization, reintegration and resettlement or repatriation programme.

b Pertains to rations for military contingents and formed police personnel only; excludes
rations for ex-combatants in the disarmament, demobilization, rehabilitation and
reintegration programme.

c The 2002/03 expenditure pertains only to rations purchased for emergency purposes.


