
United Nations A/58/610

 

General Assembly Distr.: General
24 November 2003

Original: English

03-63130 (E)    261103

*0363130*

Fifty-eighth session
Agenda item 59
Strengthening of the United Nations system

Improvements to the current process of planning
and budgeting

Report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and
Budgetary Questions

1. The Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions has
considered the note by the Secretary-General on improvements to the current
process of planning and budgeting (A/58/600). During its consideration of the note,
the Committee met with representatives of the Secretary-General, who provided
additional information and clarifications. The Advisory Committee had a limited
amount of time to consider the information contained in the note.

2. The information contained in the note was initially provided to the Fifth
Committee as supplementary information for its informal consultations. Pursuant to
a request made by the Committee at its 19th meeting, on 17 November 2003, the
note was formally submitted, through the Advisory Committee, for the consideration
of the Fifth Committee (see ibid., para. 1). The Advisory Committee considered it
on 21 November 2003 on the basis of an advance text; the official version, translated
into all languages, was not yet available.

3. According to the note, the information contained therein “relates to the
recommendations of the Advisory Committee” (see ibid., para. 2). The Committee
points out that, while the note attempts to address a number of concerns raised in its
report on this question (A/58/7/Add.5, sect. I), a number of other concerns have not
been dealt with, as indicated below.

4. The note by the Secretary-General contains a “mock-up” of the strategic
framework and of the budget outline and also includes a summary of decisions being
sought on the proposals of the Secretary-General regarding improvements to the
current process of planning and budgeting. In this connection, the Committee recalls
that it had recommended that the Secretary-General be requested to submit mock-
ups for consideration by the Assembly “based on such guidance as the General
Assembly may wish to give with regard to the proposals of the Secretary-General”
(see ibid., para. 7). The Committee notes that the mock-ups have been submitted



2
A/58/610

without the benefit of the guidance of the General Assembly, including on the issue
of replacing the present four-year medium-term plan with a biennial programme
plan, as well as the proposed revision in the role of the Committee for Programme
and Coordination (see ibid., para. 6).

5. The two mock-ups now under consideration have been “based on current
documents to illustrate the very limited changes in format that are being proposed as
a consequence of the synchronization of the planning cycle with that of the budget
outline and the programme budget” (A/58/600, para. 3).

6. The Advisory Committee notes that the question of the timing of the
consideration of the biennial programme plan and budget outline has not been
addressed in the note by the Secretary-General. The Committee recalls its view that
it would be preferable if the budget outline could be prepared after the review and
approval of such plan instrument as the General Assembly may wish to establish and
its request that the timing of the submission and consideration of both parts of the
“strategic framework” be clarified in the report containing the mock-ups (see
A/58/7/Add.5, para. 12). The Committee reiterates its request that the
Secretariat clarify the question of the timing of the consideration of the
biennial programme plan and the budget outline.

7. The proposals of the Secretary-General also represent an attempt to respond to
the request of the General Assembly contained in paragraph 32 of its resolution
57/300 of 20 December 2002 that he submit a more detailed proposal at the fifty-
eighth session for a shorter, more strategic medium-term plan that is linked to the
budget outline (see A/58/600, para. 4). The Advisory Committee’s preliminary
review of the mock-up of the biennial programme plan for programme 5, Legal
affairs, shows that the mock-up is not, in fact, any shorter than the current
four-year medium-term plan for the same programme. Moreover, the structure
of the subprogrammes of the proposed biennial plan is identical to that of the
current medium-term plan. The Committee is not in a position, therefore, to
conclude, on the basis of the mock-up, that the biennial programme plan would
be shorter or more strategic than the current medium-term plan. The
Committee requests that the Secretary-General clearly identify ways in which
the content and structure could be modified to achieve a streamlined plan.

8. Moreover, the Advisory Committee recalls that it had requested the
Secretary-General to clarify how the medium-term plan could be made an
instrument of policy rather than a listing of activities (see A/58/7/Add.5, para.
9). The Committee points out that this request has not been addressed in the
note. As yet there has still been no analysis of the problems, in the current
budget process, in allocating resources according to priorities in the plan and
outline documents.

9. Moreover, the Advisory Committee points out that the note does not
address its request that clarification be provided with regard to the proposed
measures to improve the current process of programme planning, monitoring
and evaluation, including a modified biennial programme performance report
and improved format and timing of evaluation reports (see ibid., para. 14).

10. Taking into account the information contained in paragraph 5 (b) of the
note and paragraph 25 of the report of the Secretary-General on this question
(A/58/395 and Corr.1), the Committee is not certain as to the level of detail on



3
A/58/610

outputs and resource requirements that would be made available to the
Member States in the budget fascicles and to the Advisory Committee through
supplementary information. The Committee is of the view that the Secretary-
General should provide additional clarification on this issue.

11. Should the General Assembly wish to proceed to take decisions on the
proposals contained in paragraph 5 of the note by the Secretary-General, the
Advisory Committee will provide further comments and recommendations
when it takes up the plan and the outline. Since the changes now being
proposed are minimal, there will be only minimal consequential amendments to
the relevant financial and planning regulations.


