
United Nations A/58/537

 

General Assembly Distr.: General
29 October 2003

Original: English

03-58619 (E)    301003
*0358619*

Fifty-eighth session
Agenda item 155
Report of the Special Committee on the Charter of the
United Nations and on the Strengthening of the Role
of the Organization

Repertory of Practice of United Nations Organs and the
Repertoire of the Practice of the Security Council

Report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and
Budgetary Questions

1. The Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions has
considered the Secretary-General’s report entitled “Repertory of Practice of United
Nations Organs and the Repertoire of the Practice of the Security Council”
(A/58/347). During its consideration of the report, the Committee met with
representatives of the Secretary-General, who provided additional information.

2. The Advisory Committee notes that the Secretary-General’s progress report is
submitted pursuant to paragraph 4 of General Assembly resolution 57/24 of 19
November 2002, in which the Assembly took note of paragraph 57 of the Secretary-
General’s report A/57/370, commending his efforts to reduce the backlog in the
publication of the Repertory of Practice of United Nations Organs, and endorsed his
efforts to eliminate the backlog in the publication of the Repertoire of the Practice
of the Security Council.

3. Paragraphs 2 to 13 of the report (A/58/347) provide information on the steps
undertaken to expedite the preparation of supplements to the Repertory, and
paragraphs 14 to 33 summarize the status of the Repertory. The Committee notes,
among the alternative courses of action discussed, that the possibility of partnerships
with academia was considered. However, as indicated in paragraph 10 of the report,
it should be noted that while some academic institutions expressed readiness to
cooperate through internship programmes, they stressed their inability to take over
the preparation of the Repertory.

4. Paragraph 13 of the report indicated that it was the view of the
Interdepartmental Committee on Charter Repertory that further elaboration of
possible courses of action would need to await the decision of the General Assembly
on the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2004-2005.



2
A/58/537

5. In this connection, the Advisory Committee notes the information provided in
paragraphs 34 and 35 of the report, which relates to the assessment of action
required. However, at the time when the Advisory Committee was considering the
Secretary-General’s report (A/58/347), it was informed that the Sixth Committee
was discussing the issue of the Repertory and working on a related draft resolution.
The Advisory Committee recalls that any decision of the General Assembly that
entails financial requirements is subject to the provision of a statement of
programme budget implications and its consideration by the Fifth Committee,
which will make the appropriate recommendation.

6. Paragraphs 36 to 41 of the report refer to the status of the Repertoire of the
Practice of the Security Council and the preparation of future supplements to the
Repertoire. The Advisory Committee notes the contributions provided to date and
the indication that additional contributions are needed, including assistance by
associate experts, to maintain the temporary team at the current level and complete
the work of the twelfth Supplement in a timely manner and bring the Repertoire up
to date. The Committee was informed that associate experts are type I gratis
personnel sponsored by Governments under the established volunteer programme
for technical cooperation.


