
United Nations A/59/785

 

General Assembly Distr.: General
18 April 2005

Original: English

05-31257 (E)    200405

*0531257*

Fifty-ninth session
Agenda item 108
Programme budget for the biennium 2004-2005

Strengthened and unified security management system for
the United Nations: standardized access control

Report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and
Budgetary Questions

1. The Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions has
considered the report of the Secretary-General on a strengthened and unified
security management system for the United Nations: standardized access control
(A/59/776).

2. The General Assembly, in its resolution 59/276 of 23 December 2004, decided
to defer until the second part of its resumed fifty-ninth session consideration of the
Secretary-General’s proposal on the global access control system, pending receipt of
a detailed report of the Secretary-General.

3. The Advisory Committee notes that the Secretary-General intends to address
the General Assembly’s request in detail in a comprehensive progress report to be
submitted at its sixtieth session. In the interim, the Department of Safety and
Security intends to comprehensively assess security requirements relating to access
control and formulate a strategic global approach. The Committee was informed that
it is intended to establish a project access control team, comprising internal and
external (consultant) security experts, to develop an implementation strategy.
Requirements for specialized outside consultant expertise is projected at $180,000
from within the overall resources approved for the biennium 2004-2005 and
included within the proposed programme budget for the biennium 2006-2007 under
section 33, Safety and security.

4. The Advisory Committee was informed that the eventual aim of the
standardized access system was to find the right balance between measures to be
implemented and perceived security threats. The Committee was also informed that
cooperative activities had been undertaken with United Nations funds and
programmes whose staff would require regular access to United Nations facilities
worldwide. The planned access measures would include United Nations
Headquarters facilities as well as other offices away from Headquarters. The



2
A/59/785

Department of Safety and Security is taking steps to ensure that a full understanding
of secure access is reached at all United Nations locations.

5. The report of the Secretary-General (para. 3) includes the following
anticipated project time frames:

• Planning and preliminary design of the project: 6-9 months

• Implementation phase: 18-24 months

• Total project duration: 24-33 months.

6. The Advisory Committee looks forward to a more developed time frame in the
report to be submitted to the General Assembly at its sixtieth session. The
Committee was informed that necessary measures will be taken to meet perceived
immediate threats pending completion of the project. The Committee sees merit in
the careful and measured approach presented in the report of the Secretary-
General to proceed incrementally to ensure that the new access system will be
balanced against the perceived threat to United Nations facilities. The
Committee recommends that the General Assembly take note of the report of
the Secretary-General on standardized access control with the expectation that
a comprehensive progress report will be presented during the sixtieth session.

Documentation

• Report of the Secretary-General on a strengthened and unified security
management system for the United Nations: standardized access
control (A/59/776)

• General Assembly resolution 59/276 on questions relating to the
programme budget for the biennium 2004-2005

• Report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary
Questions on a strengthened and unified security management system
for the United Nations (A/59/539)


