
United Nations A/59/558

 

General Assembly Distr.: General
8 November 2004

Original: English

04-59677 (E)    111104

*0459677*

Fifty-ninth session
Agenda item 108
Programme budget for the biennium 2004-2005

Information and communications technology strategy

Strengthening the Department of Public Information, within
the existing capacity, in order to support and enhance the
United Nations web site in all official languages of the
Organization: status of implementation

Report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and
Budgetary Questions

1. The Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions has
considered the reports of the Secretary-General on the progress in implementing the
information and communications technology (ICT) strategy (A/59/265) and on the
status of strengthening the Department of Public Information, within the existing
capacity, in order to support and enhance the United Nations web site in all official
languages of the Organization (A/59/336). During its consideration of the items, the
Committee met with representatives of the Secretary-General, who provided
additional information.

Information and communications technology strategy

2. The report of the Secretary-General on the information and communications
technology strategy was submitted pursuant to paragraph 46 of General Assembly
resolution 58/270 of 23 December 2003. The report summarizes the outcome of
work during the past year on the implementation of initiatives related to four main
elements, identified as “building blocks” of the ICT strategy, and on the
strengthening of the governance aspects of the strategy. It also provides information
on the impact of investment in ICT on the operations of the United Nations
(A/59/265, paras. 1-3). An updated status of implementation of the major ICT
projects, initially described in the report of the Secretary-General to the General
Assembly at its fifty-seventh session on the ICT strategy (A/57/620), is included in
the annex to document A/59/265. The Advisory Committee welcomes the report.



2
A/59/558

3. Paragraphs 4 to 25 of document A/59/265 discuss the above-mentioned matters
under the following subjects:

(a) Infrastructure at Headquarters and at offices away from Headquarters;

(b) ICT security policies and provisions to ensure business continuity and
emergency preparedness;

(c) Connectivity to and from all the offices away from Headquarters,
including the International Tribunals for Rwanda and for the Former Yugoslavia;

(d) Capacity-building and efficient utilization of skilled human resource
base;

(e) Framework for institutional governance of the ICT processes;

(f) Inter-agency ICT activities, including the development of a
comprehensive ICT strategy for the United Nations system;

(g) Return on investment of the individual ICT projects.

4. With regard to the project of the Office of Human Resources Management
entitled “Galaxy-R2”, whose objective as a web tool is, inter alia, to enable human
resources practitioners and programme mangers to review applications to vacant
posts on the Internet, the Advisory Committee enquired as to the status of the
development of screening and filtering mechanisms. The Committee was informed
that the ability to conduct structured searches of candidates based on years of
experience, gender, geography (nationality) and the capacity to conduct advanced
search by key words from the candidates free text area of work experience were
made available to human resource case officers in April 2003. This search
capability, which provides screening and filtering mechanisms to assist programme
managers in selection of candidates, is also being provided to the programme case
officers with the release of Galaxy-R2 in the fourth quarter of 2004.

5. On a related matter, the Advisory Committee was informed that the
Communications and Information Technology Service and the Personnel
Management and Support Service of the Department of Peacekeeping Operations
had completed development of the roster management capacity for mission positions
through the integration of Galaxy and Nucleus to facilitate the selection by the
Personnel Management and Support Service of candidates for start-up missions.
Additionally, at present the Office of Human Resources Management and
Department of Peacekeeping Operations are developing the capacity to support the
identification of prior vacancies with matching characteristics of occupational
group, grade level and functional title. By utilizing that functionality, Galaxy will be
able to automatically assign candidates to the current vacancies, thereby speeding up
the selection process. The prototype of the vacancy matching has been completed by
the Office, and it is expected that an initial release will be completed by the end of
2004.

6. The Advisory Committee notes the progress made on inter-agency ICT
activities discussed in paragraph 21 of document A/59/269. The Committee had
endorsed the view of the Board of Auditors that a comprehensive, United Nations-
wide initiative should be undertaken to coordinate efforts on ICT strategy and
developments (see A/59/400, paras. 16 and 41). The Committee notes that in
coordination with the ICT Task Force of the United Nations System Chief



3
A/59/558

Executives Board for Coordination (CEB) and the CEB secretariat, the Information
Technology Services Division is collaborating with other organizations of the
United Nations system in the development of a comprehensive ICT strategy for the
United Nations system.

7. The Advisory Committee was informed that the high-level goals of the United
Nations system ICT strategy are the following:

(a) Setting out a vision to harness the power of the United Nations system,
acting in harmony in ICT matters for the benefit of all stakeholders;

(b) Harmonizing efforts, standardization and investments, and avoiding
duplication, leading to significant system-wide savings;

(c) Improving effectiveness and efficiency of services to Member States and
governing bodies of the United Nations system organizations;

(d) Contributing into achieving the Millennium Development Goals and
bridging the digital divide.

8. The Advisory Committee was informed that the strategy for implementation
focused on five areas and identified 15 business cases, each considering and
defining the problem, the opportunity, the target position, advantages and
constraints, the time frame, the proposed action plan and its sustainability, as
follows:

Areas of strategy Related business cases

ICT in development • ICT integration in development programmes

• United Nations ICT services sourcing strategy

• ICT development network

ICT best practices • ICT governance and best practice

• Business case preparation and costing

Information security • Information security, disaster recovery and
business continuity

• United Nations-wide public key infrastructure

Implementation • Enterprise resource planning systems

• Common application solutions

• Open source software

• Knowledge sharing

• Web management and content

• United Nations system directory

• ICT assets; procurement and disposal

Sustainability • Training



4
A/59/558

9. The Advisory Committee recalls that it joined with the Board of Auditors in its
recommendation that a more proactive approach needed to be taken in the
coordination of ICT efforts in the United Nations and its funds and programmes so
as to ensure that the approach taken was cost-effective and met the requirements of
organizations and Member States (see A/59/400, para. 42). In this connection, the
Committee was informed that some important considerations were: (a) while the
Information Technology Services Division had assumed a role of the lead agency in
several ICT initiatives launched within the United Nations system, the current
strategy did not intend to overlap with each organization’s individual ICT strategic
framework; (b) the programmatic alignment of the strategy with objectives that were
common to all organizations of the United Nations system and not specific to
individual organization; and (c) the investments that might be required to implement
the strategy should be offset by the benefits achieved through expected cost-
reduction.

10. The Advisory Committee was informed that the Secretariat closely follows the
development of the Enterprise Resource Planning systems in the United Nations
funds and programmes as well as in the United Nations specialized agencies, both in
terms of functionality and technology. As an alternative to the Integrated
Management Information System was not likely to be imminently available, the
System was being kept current with modifications to its technology to replace some
of its obsolete technical components and to extend its technological lifespan.

11. The Advisory Committee was informed that although aggregate figures on the
positive return of ICT investments could not yet be produced, the methodology and
mechanism in place would allow the quantification of the return on investment at
the individual project level. The annex to document A/59/265 includes information
at the project level on benefits of introducing technology in the operations of the
United Nations, identified as support for decision-making process, levering past
investments, process streamlining and service improvements.

12. Furthermore, on the matter of quantification of return on investment, the
Advisory Committee was also informed that, at the time of preparation of the
proposed programme budget for the biennium 2004-2005, the Programme Planning
and Budget Division had made an attempt to identify efficiency gains and savings
arising from investment in information technology, organizational improvements
and other initiatives. Such savings were identified within 17 sections of the
proposed programme budget for a total estimated savings of $33.3 million. This was
reported to the Advisory Committee in July 2003. An analysis of the efficiency
gains arising from the investment in information technology made at that time
showed that gains were primarily in the administrative and conference services area.
These gains in some cases enabled programme managers to accommodate a higher
level of workload with the same or smaller capacity; in other cases, programme
managers were able to redeploy resources released as a result of such efficiencies to
other areas.

13. The Advisory Committee was further informed that it was the intention to
continue with the identification of returns on investment in ICT initiatives in the
context of the proposed programme budget for 2006-2007. As envisaged in the
Secretary-General’s bulletin ST/SGB/2003/17, the Project Review Committee has
been established under the Information and Communications Technology Board,
with the purpose of ensuring that ICT standards are uniformly applied to all ICT



5
A/59/558

initiatives. Departments and offices are expected to prepare and submit to the
Project Review Committee a high-level business case for every ICT initiative and to
provide justification for undertaking the ICT initiative, to estimate the cost of the
project, to identify risks and to summarize its benefits and return on investment. In
order to align the budget process with these initiatives, all requests submitted to the
Programme Planning and Budget Division for additional resources for new ICT
projects in the biennium 2006-2007 involving costs in excess of $200,000 per
business case will need to be accompanied by a copy of the pertinent business case,
carrying the recommendations of the Project Review Committee. Upon compilation
of all projected initiatives, it will then be possible for the Programme Planning and
Budget Division to estimate an overall return on investment embodied into the
proposed programme budget for 2006-2007.

14. The Advisory Committee notes that interdepartmental joint operations are
leveraging the investment made in infrastructure. Joint operations of the Department
of Peacekeeping Operations and the Information Technology Services Division are
expected to result in a reduction in overall support costs (see A/59/265, para. 11).
The Committee was informed that to take advantage of time difference between
Headquarters and the United Nations Logistics Base at Brindisi, Italy, a “follow-the-
sun” approach was being implemented on network operations. This included two
aspects: (a) it allowed the utilization of the available network bandwidth at one site
during night-time by a duty station located at a different time zone; and (b) it
allowed network support staff resources working during the day at Brindisi and/or
New York to monitor server and network operations and to resolve problems in the
other computer centre, ensuring 24-hour availability.

15. The approach mentioned above is most prominently used for “help desk
services” and Internet access. The help desks for Department of Peacekeeping
Operations users and field missions are being serviced by staff operating at both
Brindisi and Headquarters. Trained personnel can thus provide for help desk service
during an additional six-hour window without resorting to overtime or night
differential. The provision of Internet services to offices away from Headquarters
serviced by satellite links (the United Nations Office at Nairobi, the Economic
Commission for Africa and the Economic and Social Commission for Western
Asia), is optimized to take advantage of the lightly used Internet capacity available
at Headquarters outside the New York working hours. Advanced plans for setting up
a mirror site of the United Nations web site (www.un.org) in the United Nations
Logistics Base at Brindisi will provide users with better service and minimized
redundancies in case of down time or failure of either of the two sites. This service
will, in the future, be part of a larger disaster recovery plan of the Department of
Peacekeeping Operations that will be finalized in the second quarter of 2005.

16. The Advisory Committee sought clarification on the upgrading of the local
area network and requested information on reasons why new multimedia
applications and other enhancements could not be targeted in a cost-effective
manner to selected users. The Committee was informed that the upgrade of the local
area network was required to provide increased strength and stability to network
operations. As a result of the upgrade, down time had been reduced significantly,
leading to the achievement of the availability goal of 99.5 per cent. The network
will be capable to support multimedia applications wherever they are required.
Specific requests for desktop videoconferencing capabilities have already been
received from the Department of General Assembly and Conference Management,



6
A/59/558

the Department of Public Information and the Office of Programme Planning,
Budget and Accounts/Programme Planning and Budget Division to support a more
efficient production of documents and audio-visual content. In this connection, the
Committee was informed that the targeting of this upgrade to specific desktops
would not have resulted in cost reductions. Implementing multiple transmission
protocols over the same network requires dual switching and routing equipment and
makes maintenance and management more costly and complex. However, their
implementation speeds up and simplifies business processes throughout the
Secretariat, allowing for the accommodation of a higher workload with the same or
less level of resources.

17. The Advisory Committee recommends that the General Assembly take
note of the progress report of the Secretary-General on implementing the
information and communications technology strategy.

18. The Advisory Committee enquired about the steps taken to reduce the number
of existing e-mail systems in various entities of the Secretariat by adopting one
single common system for the United Nations. The Committee was informed that
the International Computing Centre at Geneva, at a recent meeting of its
Management Committee, had been tasked with developing a proposal, including
projected costs, for hosting and managing a global e-mail system. The Centre is
currently working on this issue.

United Nations web site

19. The report of the Secretary-General on the status of strengthening the
Department of Public Information, within the existing capacity, in order to support
and enhance the United Nations web site in all official languages of the
Organization (A/59/336) was submitted pursuant to paragraph 42 of General
Assembly resolution 58/270, in which the Assembly recalled its decision 57/579 of
20 December 2002 and requested the Secretary-General to continue to strengthen
the United Nations web site through the further redeployment of resources to the
required language posts and to report on the status of its implementation to the
Assembly at its fifty-ninth session. In its decision 57/579, the Assembly requested
the Secretary-General to proceed with the implementation of his proposal on
strengthening the web site through the redeployment of resources within the
Department of Public Information, to keep the question of equality among the six
official languages on the web site under review and to submit proposals aimed at
achieving full equality among the languages.

20. Existing resources to make the web site operational and to ensure its continued
enhancement and maintenance are discussed in paragraphs 4 and 5 of document
A/59/336. Currently, the staff of the Website Section comprises 25 posts (1 P-5, 3 P-
4, 6 P-3, 3 P-2 and 12 General Service posts) redeployed from other functions and
activities of the Department of Public Information. In addition, three General
Service (Other level) staff work in the Section under general temporary assistance.
The Advisory Committee was provided, upon request, with a list of current staffing
broken down by web site language assignment (see the annex to the present report).

21. The Advisory Committee notes from paragraph 8 of document A/59/336 that
the Department of Public Information has taken steps to enhance the web site and
facilitate the availability of materials in all official languages by entering into



7
A/59/558

arrangements with universities in various linguistic regional areas for pro bono
translation of information materials. The Committee welcomes these
arrangements and encourages the Department of Public Information to
continue this work.

22. Current workload and future requirements of the Website Section are discussed
in paragraph 6 to 11 of the report of the Secretary-General. The Advisory
Committee will revert to this matter and examine the proposals of the Department of
Public Information in the context of the proposed programme budget for the
biennium 2006-2007.

23. The Advisory Committee recommends that the General Assembly take
note of the report of the Secretary-General on the United Nations web site.



8
A/59/558

Annex
Current staffing of the Website Section, News and Media
Division, Department of Public Information

Function Title Level Number

Office of the Chief Chief of Section
Secretary

P-5
GS

1
1

Website Language Unit Office of the Chief P-4 2

Arabic Language Coordinator
Language Assistant
Language Assistant

P-3
GS
GS*

1
1
1

Chinese Language Coordinator
Language Assistant
Language Assistant

P-3
GS
GS*

1
1
1

English Language Coordinator
Language Assistant

P-3
GS

-
2

French Language Coordinator
Language Assistant

P-3
GS

1
2

Russian Language Coordinator
Language Assistant

P-3
GS

1
2

Spanish Language Coordinator
Language Assistant
Language Assistant

P-3
GS
GS*

1
1
1

Special Projects Unit Chief, Special Projects Unit P-4 1

Website Coordinator P-3 1

Web Development and
Webcasting Unit

Acting Chief, Web Development P-2 1

Website Designer P-2 1

Database Developer P-2 1

Web Development Assistant GS 2

P 13

Total
(25 established posts and 3 temporary)

GS 12

GS* 3

GS* — General Service post funded under general temporary assistance.


