
United Nations A/59/540

 

General Assembly Distr.: General
28 October 2004

Original: English

04-57727 (E)    291004

*0457727*

Fifty-ninth session
Agenda item 107
Review of the efficiency of the administrative and financial
functioning of the United Nations

Procurement reform

Outsourcing practices

Report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and
Budgetary Questions

1. The Advisory Committee has considered the reports of the Secretary-General
on procurement reform (A/59/216) and on outsourcing practices (A/59/227). During
its consideration of the reports, the Committee met with representatives of the
Secretary-General, who provided additional information and clarification.

Procurement reform

2. The report of the Secretary-General on procurement reform is submitted
pursuant to General Assembly resolution 57/279 of 20 December 2002. The
Committee welcomes the format of the report which addresses in each section the
various requests made by the Assembly in its resolution 57/279 and which
summarizes the procurement reform activities undertaken and the progress made
during the past two years.

3. The Committee notes from the statistical data provided in annex I to the report
that the total volume of procurement has increased from $468 million in 1999 to
$892 million in 2003, and that the share of the developing countries of the total
volume of procurement for 2003 amounts to 13.6 per cent. The report depicts the
efforts made by the Secretariat to encourage increased procurement from developing
countries. Thus, paragraph 3 of the report indicates the increase in the number of
seminars conducted and in the vendors successfully registered from developing
countries and countries with economies in transition, as well as the creation of a
standing working group which will coordinate seminar-related activities throughout
the United Nations system, develop common presentation materials and coordinate
the training of staff participating in the business seminars. The Advisory
Committee encourages the exploration of other avenues through inter-agency



2
A/59/540

facilities, including an analysis of the current approach to seminars in order to
make them more results-oriented. Also, the Advisory Committee recommends
that follow-up mechanisms be considered, with a view to further increasing the
procurement opportunities for vendors from developing countries and
countries with economies in transition.

4. The Committee notes the progress achieved in the harmonization and
streamlining of procurement practices. As indicated in the report, a series of
headquarters system contracts have been negotiated, open to all funds and
programmes based in New York, and a tracking system that monitors the usage of
system contracts now allows action to be taken when they are close to the ceiling of
the established contract amount. The Internet site, UNBIZ, maintained by the
Procurement Service (formerly known as the Procurement Division), provides a
gateway that helps suppliers and the public to navigate the procurement sites of
participating organizations in the United Nations system. In addition, the revised
Financial Regulations and Rules promulgated in 2003 allow the Secretariat of the
United Nations to cooperate more fully with other organizations of the system in the
area of procurement. The Committee was informed that the adoption of a common
commodity classification system might be considered, thus also allowing for closer
interaction within the United Nations system.

5. A number of initiatives, developed to improve efficiency, are presented in
paragraphs 16 to 20 of the report of the Secretary-General. Among them, one
system, known as eHCC, allows the electronic processing of presentations to the
Headquarters Committee on Contracts. Peacekeeping missions now submit local
procurement cases that are to be reviewed by the Headquarters Committee on
Contracts directly to the Procurement Service for its review and processing through
the eHCC system, thereby streamlining and speeding up the whole process. The
Committee was informed that this initiative was not a replacement for the process
itself but that it translated into a lighter workload in terms of human resources and
paperwork, and that the initiative was expected to be rolled out to the field later in
2004. The Committee welcomes this initiative.

6. The Committee was informed that, in February 2004, a newly designed
Internet-based vendor registration system, the United Nations Global Marketplace,
had been launched, in which all organizations of the system would participate. As
indicated in paragraph 8 of the report, it is planned to make the Global Marketplace
“a consolidated one-stop shop which will meet all requirements of both the public
and the United Nations staff members working in procurement” and to roll the
system out to field missions and other field offices in the near future. The system is
to include a vendor performance rating system, thus allowing information on the
performance of the vendors to be shared among users at United Nations
organizations. The Advisory Committee welcomes the review of vendor
management mentioned in paragraph 9 of the report of the Secretary-General
and the implementation of the related recommendations in order to simplify
and streamline the vendor registration process, particularly where different
organizations take the lead in evaluating and pre-qualifying vendors providing
goods and services in the areas in which they possess expertise, thus sharing
responsibility among the various organizations of the United Nations system.



3
A/59/540

7. The Committee was informed that, as at 21 October 2004, 4,664 vendors were
fully registered and 440 vendors were provisionally registered (less than 9 per cent)
in the database of the Procurement Service.

8. The Committee held an exchange of views with the representatives of the
Secretary-General regarding the issue of accountability within the procurement
reform framework, taking into account the weaknesses identified by the Board of
Auditors and the Office of Internal Oversight Services in relation to the process of
vendor registration.1 The Committee was informed that, although there was a
mechanism to review exceptions (a committee that looks at vendor registration), a
system (Mercury II) was being developed to address the issue. The Advisory
Committee recommends that the weaknesses in the process be addressed,
taking into account the comments and observations of the Board of Auditors
and the Office of Internal Oversight Services. The Committee requests that
information regarding the accountability factor within the procurement reform
framework be provided in the next report of the Secretary-General.

9. As regards field procurement, the Committee notes that the Procurement
Service is now responsible for clearing the candidates applying for procurement
positions in the field, and that annual meetings are organized at Headquarters, with
the participation of all heads of procurement at offices away from Headquarters,
regional commissions, international tribunals and all peacekeeping missions, to
discuss issues of common interest and provide additional training. The Committee
also notes that the Procurement Service has taken over the responsibility for
coordinating the training of field procurement staff, as indicated in paragraphs 14
and 22 of the report. The Advisory Committee is of the opinion that the training
programmes should focus on a train-the-trainers approach, by means of which,
large numbers of junior personnel could be trained in a more cost-effective and
efficient way. In addition, the Committee recalls that it has previously drawn
attention to the need to monitor and evaluate training needs (see A/57/772,
paras. 127-133, and A/58/759, paras. 75-78).

10. The Committee enquired into the matter of delegation of authority. In this
connection, it was informed that delegation of authority with regard to procurement,
establishment of local committees on contracts, property management and inventory
control was being finalized. The new delegations of authority, which are to be
issued in the near future, are in line with those issued by the Controller for financial
authority. The proposed delegation will be given, on a “personal” basis, to the Chief
Administrative Officer who may delegate downwards to the Chief Procurement
Officer, individual procurement officers and Field Service staff, but he/she will
remain accountable for the appropriate use of the authority, thus addressing the need
to strengthen monitoring, oversight and accountability.

11. The Committee notes that it is also proposed to delegate authority to the field
for requirements which by their nature lend themselves to local procurement, such
as leasing of premises, provision of fresh food, laundry and cleaning services, local
utility services etc. These core items, of a value up to $1 million, require knowledge
of local market conditions and in-theatre sources of supply, for which Headquarters
cannot add significant value to the process of procurement. However, the initiative
will incorporate a reporting mechanism and will be closely monitored. Core items
with an estimated value of over $1 million will continue to be submitted to
Headquarters for review and approval.



4
A/59/540

Outsourcing practices

12. The report of the Secretary-General on outsourcing practices (A/59/227),
submitted in compliance with the request made by the General Assembly in
paragraph 3 of its resolution 58/276 of 23 December 2003, provides information
regarding the location, type of outsourced activity and reason for the particular
requirement, based on the four basic criteria endorsed by the Assembly, as well as
the savings identified, as requested by the Advisory Committee in its previous
report on the subject (A/57/7/Add.1).

13. The Advisory Committee is of the opinion that consideration should be
given to providing the information through a thematic approach by locality,
instead of just a list of outputs, and to including an analysis of trends, which
would provide a better picture of the interests of the Organization.

Notes

1 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Fifty-ninth Session, Supplement No. 5 (A/59/5),
vol. I, chap. II; and A/59/396.


