
United Nations A/59/446

 

General Assembly Distr.: General
20 October 2004

Original: English

04-56416 (E)    221004

*0456416*

Fifty-ninth session
Agenda items 98, 114, and 123

Advancement of women

Human resources management

Administrative and budgetary aspects of the financing of the
United Nations peacekeeping operations

Human resources management

Report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and
Budgetary Questions

I. Introduction

1. The Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions has
considered the following reports of the Secretary-General on human resources
management:

(a) Human resources management reform (A/59/263);

(b) Contractual arrangements (A/59/263/Add.1);

(c) Improving gender distribution in the Secretariat (A/59/263/Add.2);

(d) Measures to prevent discrimination on the basis of nationality, race,
gender, religion, or language in the United Nations (A/59/211);

(e) Amendments to the staff rules (A/59/213 and Add.1);

(f) Consultants and individual contractors (A/59/217);

(g) Employment of retired former staff (A/59/222);

(h) Comprehensive report on the staffing for field missions, including the
use of 300 and 100 series appointments (A/59/291);

(i) Improvement of equitable geographical representation in the United
Nations Secretariat (A/59/264);

(j) Improvement of the status of women in the United Nations system
(A/59/357).



2
A/59/446

The Committee also had before it the reports of the Office of Internal Oversight
Services on the impact of the human resources management reform (A/59/253) and
the availability in local labour markets of the skills for which international
recruitment for the General Service category takes place (A/59/388) and a note by
the Secretary-General transmitting a document submitted by the staff unions and
associations of the United Nations Secretariat setting out the views of the staff
representatives of the United Nations Secretariat on human resources management
(A/C.5/59/4). During its consideration of the reports, the Committee met with
representatives of the Secretary-General and the Staff Committee, who provided
additional information.

II. General considerations

2. The report of the Secretary-General on human resources management reform
(A/59/263 and Add.1 and 2) was submitted in response to the request of the General
Assembly in section II of its resolution 57/305 of 15 April 2003 that the Secretary-
General report in a comprehensive manner on the achievements of the human
resources management reform, when sufficient information was available on the
experiences of the Secretariat with the implementation of the reform initiatives as
implemented within the prerogative of the Secretary-General or as approved by the
General Assembly. In the same resolution, the Assembly requested the Secretary-
General to conduct a study, through the Office of Internal Oversight Services, on the
impact of human resources management reform and to report thereon to the
Assembly at its fifty-ninth session; that report is contained in document A/59/253.

3. It has been emphasized to the Advisory Committee by the Secretariat that
the process of human resources management reform involves a change in
culture, and that such change takes time. The Committee is fully aware of the
difficulties involved in meeting this challenge. In the opinion of the Committee,
it is proper, at this point, to analyse, on the basis of experience gained thus far,
what has been achieved, what has not worked and why, and what must be
refined or improved to expedite the process and achieve further success. It is
also important to strengthen the accountability framework for the achievement
of results.

4. It should be kept in mind that the Office of Human Resources
Management is a service to support managers in carrying out the substantive
work of the Organization. Personnel policy should facilitate the effective
utilization of the resources of the Organization. The goal should be the
placement, based on merit, of qualified personnel where needed as
expeditiously as possible and the encouragement of staff and career
development so that the Organization can achieve the maximum benefit from
its human resources. Further reform should take into account the foregoing.

5. It is essential for the officials charged with the development and
implementation of personnel policy to seek out and learn more from the actual
experience of both managers and staff involved in the substantive work of the
Organization. In pursuing reform of personnel management, the practical
effect of policies in this area on the work of the Organization must be assessed
and used as the basis for further action.



3
A/59/446

6. Against this background, the Advisory Committee considers the report of
the Secretary-General on human resources management reform to be rather
general and lacking in analysis, particularly with regard to progress achieved
in implementation, problems encountered and measures planned to redress
them.

7. The question of compliance, referred to above, is one example. There must
be an efficient and effective means to ensure proper performance and
accountability for poor results. The Committee notes that despite the General
Assembly’s request that the Secretary-General continue to improve accountability
and responsibility in the reform of human resources management, as well as the
monitoring and control mechanisms, and its request that the Secretary-General
report on a biennial basis on the matter (see Assembly resolutions 57/305, sect. III,
and 55/258, sect. VII), there is little concrete information in the report concerning
measures taken to ensure accountability or difficulties encountered in implementing
the new system.

8. The Advisory Committee was informed upon enquiry that the Office of Human
Resources Management can provide guidance where it identifies problems with
compliance; however, it is the Committee’s understanding that the Office sometimes
experiences considerable difficulties in exercising authority to rectify problems. In
this connection, the Committee notes that the General Assembly, in its resolution
57/305, reaffirmed the role, authority and responsibility of the Office of Human
Resources Management in establishing human resources policies and guidelines as
well as in ensuring compliance with recruitment, placement and career development
procedures throughout the Secretariat. It does not appear to the Committee that
enough attention has been given to setting criteria to monitor the quality of
decisions made by programme managers rather than merely quantifying
mechanical adherence to procedures as measured by raw statistics. Moreover,
in finding a way to deal effectively with irregularities or non-compliance with
the requirements of the new system there first must be recognition by all
concerned that such requirements are realistic and will help to enhance the
ability of managers and staff to carry out the work of the Organization (see
para. 4 above).

9. In this connection, the Advisory Committee stresses the importance of
monitoring, and recalls that the General Assembly, in section IV, paragraph 1,
of its resolution 57/305, endorsed the development of a “more robust
monitoring capacity in the Office of Human Resources Management”. The
Committee notes the statement in paragraph 166 of the report that human resources
monitoring is linked to the human resources action plans and that progress made
towards the achievement of established human resources targets is tracked and
evaluated on a six-monthly basis by the Office and the departments involved. Upon
request, the Committee was provided with a sample monitoring template and a
sample human resources action plan. These documents should be provided to the
Fifth Committee for its consideration of the item on human resources management.
The Committee trusts that these standardized forms will streamline the
reporting process and make it more effective, thus enhancing the ability of
managers to carry out their programmes of work.

10. The Advisory Committee is of the opinion that such broad reforms as are
planned for human resources management must be accompanied by close



4
A/59/446

cooperation and consultation between staff and management; without this, the
reforms are unlikely to succeed. It is the impression of the Committee that
staff/management relations have, to some degree, broken down over the issue of
human resources management reform, leading to frustration and confrontation.
The Committee encourages the Secretary-General and the Office of Human
Resources Management in their efforts to take a fresh look at ways to involve
staff meaningfully so as to take into account their concerns in implementing
reform. The Committee trusts that management and staff will both make
concerted efforts to work together constructively in the best interest of the
Organization. Reform should be a participatory process involving all users and
must be flexible enough to change in the light of experience.

11. The Advisory Committee held an extensive exchange of views with the
representatives of the Secretary-General on a wide range of personnel matters.
Many of the Committee’s concerns, including those mentioned above, have been
made known to the representatives of the Secretary-General. In the present report,
the Committee will therefore concentrate on making recommendations in those
areas on which the General Assembly is requested to take decisions. These include:
the staff selection process, the competitive examination for recruitment to the
Professional category of staff members from other categories; and contractual
arrangements, including the use of 300 and 100 series appointments in the staffing
for field missions. The Committee also makes observations on a number of other
issues, including mobility, the employment of retirees, consultants and contractors
and improving gender balance and equitable geographical representation in the
Secretariat.

III. Staff selection

12. The Advisory Committee notes and welcomes the progress achieved in
reducing the average time required for selection (from the day that a vacancy
announcement began to be composed to the day when a selection decision is made
by the head of department) from 275 days in 1999 to 174 days at present (see
A/59/263, para. 58, and A/55/397, para. 35). These figures do not, however, include
the time it takes from selection to the placement of the candidate in the post. The
Committee understands that the factors affecting that time period lie somewhat
outside the influence of the Office of Human Resources Management;
nevertheless, such information is relevant to efforts to reduce the time for
filling vacancies, and the Committee requests that an attempt be made to
quantify statistics on the length of the placement process. In this way there will
be a basis for analysing and correcting any problems that are revealed.

13. The Advisory Committee finds the section of the report dealing with staff
selection lacking in qualitative analysis. For example, such general statements as
“two years of implementation and feedback from users of the system have revealed
its strengths and also highlighted certain areas that need further adjustments”
(A/59/263, para. 46), with few details concerning what the strengths and weaknesses
might be, does not constitute analysis. Indeed, much of the text is dedicated to
explaining the system, with a long subsection dedicated to how the central review
bodies are supposed to function. A little more candour concerning problems
encountered and proposals for dealing with them would have made for a more
useful report. The Office of Internal Oversight Services has made a number of



5
A/59/446

observations and recommendations on staff selection and the central review bodies
(see A/59/253, paras. 5-41 and 91-108).

14. The Advisory Committee notes that the Office of Human Resources
Management continues to struggle with the enormous increase in the number of
applications received per vacancy since the introduction of Galaxy. This is not a
new problem; the Committee has been informed on several occasions that efforts
were under way to provide for electronic screening of applicants1 and the report of
the Secretary-General speaks of future “automatic eligibility tagging” (A/59/263,
para. 68). The Committee regrets that more progress has not been made in this
regard, and it emphasizes once again that unless such problems are resolved, the
effectiveness of Galaxy will be compromised and the cost-effectiveness of its
future use will be called into question.2 In this connection, the Committee trusts
that the criteria used for the screening process and subsequent compilation of
shortlists will be clear and transparent to all.

15. On the recommendation of the Office of Internal Oversight Services
(A/59/253, para. 103), the Secretary-General proposes reducing the number of days
required for advertising a vacancy from 60 to 45 (A/59/263, para. 58), in the interest
of further shortening the time required to make a selection. As noted by the Office,
the vast majority of candidates apply either within the first 45 days or just before the
deadline. The Office concludes that the advertising period could be reduced by 15
days without significantly diminishing opportunities (A/59/253, para. 29). The
Committee points out, however, that in a number of Member States it would be quite
difficult to participate in a recruitment exercise through electronic means. The
Committee therefore recommends approval of this proposal, with the
understanding that measures will be taken to ensure that Member States can opt to
continue to receive paper copies of vacancy announcements, which should be
provided by the time the electronic vacancy announcement appears. In view of the
persistent gap between staff from overrepresented Member States and those who
are from underrepresented or non-represented Member States (see para. 66
below), the Committee expects the widest possible timely circulation of vacancy
announcements so as to maximize the effort to attract qualified personnel from
non-represented or underrepresented countries. Other measures must also be
taken to speed up the processing of applications (some of these are referred in
paras. 16 and 18 below).

16. The Advisory Committee also stresses the importance of speedy
implementation of the roster management module in Galaxy. Under the staff
selection system, candidates who have been endorsed by a central review body but
not selected for the post may be placed on a roster, which is valid for one year, for
future vacancies with similar functions at the same level. Should an eligible roster
candidate be suitable for a vacancy, the programme manager may recommend his or
her immediate selection without reference to the central review body (ST/AI/2002/4,
para. 7.8). The Committee is of the opinion that effective management of such a
roster, including automatic electronic notification of programme managers
concerning eligible roster candidates, could provide a means for shortening the
recruitment timeline.

17. Upon request, the Advisory Committee was provided with a timeline for filling
of vacancies (see annex I to the present report). It would appear to the Committee
that this is a “best case” scenario. Moreover, the Committee notes that some details



6
A/59/446

are omitted from the timeline, which would seem to be of relevance to the amount
of time the selection process takes. For example, the Committee was informed, upon
enquiry, that the programme manager is required to submit to the central review
bodies an evaluation of each candidate proposed. The Committee understands,
however, that as matter of practice, in order to avoid additional steps involving
requests for information by the central review body, many programme managers
find themselves providing written justifications as to why they did not interview
candidates deemed eligible by the Office of Human Resources Management. In its
report, the Office of Internal Oversight Services deals extensively with matters
relating to staff selection and the central review bodies (see A/59/253, paras. 5-41
and 91-108). The Committee emphasizes that the selection process must be
transparent.

18. The Advisory Committee notes the statement in paragraph 58 of the Secretary-
General’s report (A/59/263) that efforts will be made to reduce the time taken by
managers in evaluating applications and by human resources officers in determining
applicant eligibility. The Advisory Committee is encouraged by this statement
and expects to see positive results from these efforts, which should take into
account the experience of the users of the system, namely, programme
managers and applicants (both internal and those who have succeeded as
external candidates).

19. Succession planning is also relevant to the filling of vacancies. The Committee
recalls its statement in its first report on the programme budget for the biennium
2004-2005 that “since scheduled retirements are known well in advance, it should
be possible to begin the process of analysing the continuing need for and placement
and level of the post to be vacated and to initiate recruitment procedures, if called
for, well in advance of the date on which the post is projected to be vacant”.3

Although there are procedures in place for succession planning, in the opinion
of the Advisory Committee, not enough is being done effectively to encourage,
indeed to require, programme managers to initiate the process for filling
vacancies in a timely manner and thus reduce the long period that posts remain
vacant. For internal candidates, improvement must also be made in the
coordination that is necessary to ensure the timely release of the successful
candidate to his or her new function.

IV. Examination for recruitment from the General Service to
the Professional category and national competitive
recruitment examination

20. Section IV.A of the report of the Secretary-General (A/59/263) addresses the
request of the General Assembly in paragraph 39 of its resolution 57/300 of
20 December 2002, that the Secretary-General submit a study on ways to promote
General Service staff to Professional posts, analysing the effects on non-represented
and underrepresented countries, while ensuring the implementation of equitable
geographic representation and aligning the procedures and qualifications of the
General Service to Professional category examinations to those of the national
competitive recruitment examinations.

21. As indicated in the report of the Secretary-General, senior General Service
staff throughout the system are increasingly having greater and more varied and



7
A/59/446

complex tasks delegated to them, as managers seek to cope with fewer resources and
expanded challenges; yet, since the post pyramid narrows sharply at the top of the
General Service category (see annex II), opportunities for advancement are limited
(see A/59/263, para. 149). The Advisory Committee trusts that ways can be
found to balance the concerns of non-represented and underrepresented
Member States with the need to uphold staff morale and afford people with
long experience and obvious talent a means to make a greater contribution to
the Organization.

22. Under the terms of Section IV, paragraph 17, of General Assembly resolution
55/258, the annual quota of posts selected for the G to P examination for promotion
from General Service to Professional category is set at up to 10 per cent of the
number of staff, other than language staff, that were recruited during the previous
calendar year at the junior Professional level (P-1/P-2) after passing a competitive
examination. In his report, the Secretary-General proposes raising the percentage to
25. Upon enquiry as to the number of posts involved, the Committee was informed
that for 2001-2004 the number of staff recruited each year after passing a
competitive exam ranged between 60 and 70. The Committee was further informed
that for 2005, 10 per cent would translate into about 6 or 7 posts and that 25 per cent
would amount to 16 or 17 posts eligible for the G to P examination.

23. The Advisory Committee believes that the issue of the percentage of posts
to be reserved for the G to P examination is a matter of policy to be determined
by the General Assembly. However, the Committee notes that the limited
number of posts under discussion points to a larger problem, namely, the very
small number of entry level (P-1/P-2) Professional posts in the Secretariat. The
issue of redressing the imbalance in the grading pyramid will first need to be
addressed if the goals of rejuvenation of the Secretariat and realizing the
legitimate aspirations of the General Service staff are both to be achieved.

24. The Secretary-General also proposes the establishment of a three-year roster of
successful candidates who could not be placed because of the limited number of
posts available. Such candidates, while not eligible to apply for posts subject to
geographic distribution, would be entitled to apply for non-geographical
Professional posts in the Secretariat. The Advisory Committee notes this proposal
with interest. It was informed that successful national competitive examination
candidates are often reluctant to take up posts outside headquarters duty stations. On
the other hand, according to the Secretariat, experience has shown that successful G
to P candidates accept offers of posts without precondition. The G to P roster
might therefore be used to help fill posts at duty stations with chronically high
vacancy rates; this would also help partially to relieve the current imbalance by
providing an increased number of recruits at the entry (P-1/P-2) level.

25. The Advisory Committee notes that for most of the national competitive
examinations, it takes nearly a year to place successful candidates on the roster from
the time of convening the exam. The Committee was informed, in this connection,
that for a number of examinations the process for 2004 was far from completion,
although the examinations were held in February. The Committee also notes that the
marking of examination papers is done by staff members who volunteer to serve on
the examination boards, often working in the evenings and on weekends, in addition
to their regular functions (see A/59/263, paras. 64 and 65). The Committee calls
upon the Secretariat to review the efficacy of this procedure.



8
A/59/446

V. Contractual arrangements

26. In response to General Assembly resolutions 55/258 and 57/305, the
Secretary-General has submitted his definitive proposal on new contractual
arrangements, spelling out the differences between existing and proposed types of
appointments (A/59/263/Add.1). The proposal involves simplifying contractual
arrangements at the United Nations so that they would consist of only three types of
appointments, namely: short-term (up to a maximum of six months) to meet peak
workload and specific short-term requirements; fixed-term (renewable up to a
maximum of five years); and continuing, to be granted to staff members who had
served on fixed-term contracts for five years and met the highest standards of
efficiency, competency and integrity. Continuing appointments could be terminated
on the same grounds as permanent contracts, but could also be terminated “in the
interest of the Organization”(A/59/263/Add.1, para. 4 (c)).

27. Probationary and permanent appointments would no longer be used; however,
there would be no change in the contractual status of staff who currently had
permanent appointments; staff already serving on a probationary appointment would
retain the right to be considered for a permanent appointment; and a one-time
review would be conducted of all fixed-term staff appointed under the 100 series of
the Staff Rules who would have been eligible to be considered for conversion to
permanent appointment if not for the freeze imposed on such conversions. The
Advisory Committee was informed that approximately 500 staff would be eligible
for consideration for conversion to permanent appointment. Should the General
Assembly approve the proposed changes to contractual arrangements, care
should be taken to handle the interim arrangements in an equitable manner
that is sensitive to the need to maintain staff morale; that is to say, measures
should be in place to ensure the application of objective criteria in considering
conversions of probationary and fixed-term contracts into permanent
appointments for eligible staff. The Committee welcomes the intention of the
Secretariat to ensure that all options for placing staff will be considered
carefully before termination is decided upon.

VI. Use of 300 and 100 series appointments in the staffing of
field missions

28. The report of the Secretary-General (A/59/291) was submitted in response to
the request of the General Assembly in paragraph 1 of its resolution 58/296 of 18
June 2004 for a comprehensive report addressing the strategy of the Organization
for meeting current and future human resources requirements for peacekeeping
missions, taking into account the observations and recommendations of the
Advisory Committee in its report on the administrative and budgetary aspects of the
financing of peacekeeping operations (see A/58/759, paras. 35-41).

29. The Advisory Committee notes that the Secretariat, in its report, has
attempted to address most of the concerns and the observations expressed by
the Committee in its report in document A/58/759.

30. The report of the Secretary-General proposes to use the 100 series of the Staff
Rules for the appointment of staff in field missions for periods of six months or
longer, when there is a continuing requirement. This is explained against the



9
A/59/446

background of a number of developments, including an increased reliance, since the
early 1990s, on United Nations missions to maintain peace agreements, the
acknowledgement that missions are longer than originally estimated when the 300
series appointments were created, the need increasingly to act under Chapter VII of
the Charter of the United Nations in deploying and sometimes expanding missions,
the multifaceted integrated approach that has evolved with regard to peacekeeping
missions, and the increasingly hostile environment in which the United Nations has
to conduct its operations. To respond, the Department of Peacekeeping Operations is
trying to develop a cadre of highly mobile, experienced, trained and multi-skilled
civilian peacekeepers in a variety of occupational fields. According to the report of
the Secretary-General, this requires “strengthened human resources structures and
policies, including equitable contracts and updated conditions of service that
facilitate, rather than impede, the interest, recruitment and retention of qualified
staff” (A/59/291, para. 15).

31. The human resources strategy envisaged to achieve the objectives of the
Department of Peacekeeping Operations is described in paragraphs 16-38 of the
Secretary-General’s report (A/59/291). Proposals for the 300 series are presented in
paragraphs 39-63 of the report. The Committee was informed that only existing
mechanisms (i.e., the 200 and 300 series) were considered. The Committee
would have welcomed greater recognition of the fact that the needs of staff and
of the Organization in peacekeeping operations are quite different from regular
budget activities and most extrabudgetary activities.

32. Moreover, despite the reference in the Secretary-General’s report to the
need for updated conditions of service, the Committee is not satisfied with the
treatment of conditions of service of staff in the field, where there are
significant differences between those provided for the United Nations staff and
those of funds and programmes. According to the proposals of the Secretary-
General made in recent reports in peacekeeping operations, the second Deputy
Special Representative of the Secretary-General (humanitarian and development
coordination) is usually the resident representative of the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP), ensuring an integrated and coordinated approach
to the mission. This would mean that his staff would be working, in many cases,
side by side with field staff employed by the Department of Peacekeeping
Operations in the mission. Current proposals do not address the inequities that
would exist with two different sets of conditions for staff performing similar
functions in the same office.

33. The Advisory Committee notes the information provided with regard to the
review undertaken by the inter-agency working group established in response to
Action 25 of the report of the Secretary-General on strengthening of the United
Nations to look into ways of harmonizing the conditions of service of staff in the
field with those of the agencies, funds and programmes (A/59/291, paras. 32-37).

34. In this connection, the Advisory Committee was informed that the special
operations approach described in paragraph 36 of the report, is applied by UNDP,
United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), the United Nations Population Fund
(UNFPA), United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS), and the Office of
the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), for staff assigned
to duty stations classified as non-family locations for security reasons. Moreover,
the World Food Programme (WFP) has approved the approach and is in the process



10

A/59/446

of implementing it, and offices with small field-based operations such as the Office
for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) and the United Nations
Human Settlements Programme (UN-HABITAT) are considering applying it as well.
A comparison of the special operations approach compensation package with that of
staff of the Department of Peacekeeping Operations staff in the field is attached as
annex III to the present report. As can be seen from the annex, existing inequities
are clearly evident.

35. However, adoption of this approach by the United Nations is declared
undesirable for operational and administrative reasons, in view of greater number of
staff of the DPKO in the field, as well as its higher mobility rate, compared with
that of the agencies, funds and programmes. The Secretariat indicates nevertheless
that it wishes to explore other means to ensure comparability of conditions of
service in recognizing, for example, the need for staff in non-family missions to
maintain a separate residence for their family members (see A/59/291, para. 37). In
the opinion of the Advisory Committee, the disparity of conditions of service in
the field is a matter of great importance affecting not only the morale of serving
staff but also the ability of the Organization to attract and retain the most
experienced and skilled staff. The common system approach in this area should
be referred, as a matter of urgency, to the International Civil Service
Commission.

36. In this connection, the Advisory Committee notes the statement in paragraph
37 of the report regarding the fact that the proposed use of the 100 series for the
majority of field staff appointments, with the exception of those recruited for short-
term activities of less than six months, would only represent a “first step towards
improving equity in the conditions of service among field staff”. The Advisory
Committee trusts that concrete proposals will be made in this regard (see
para. 51 below).

37. Paragraphs 52 and 53 and table 1 of the annex to the Secretary-General’s
report indicate that the Department of Peacekeeping Operations employed a total of
11,606 civilian staff in peacekeeping missions as of 30 June 2004. Of the 3,921
international staff employed, 1,535 were staff members engaged under appointments
of limited duration; of the 7,685 locally recruited staff, 4,547 held appointments of
limited duration. The Advisory Committee notes that 1,085 international staff were
transferred from the 300 series to 100 series appointments between June 1999 and
June 2004 (of that total, 885 remained and 200 had separated from service). Such
transfers after the fourth year of service have been suspended, however, in
accordance with General Assembly resolution 58/296.

38. The Advisory Committee notes that the proposed contractual arrangements for
field staff would be consistent with the Secretary-General’s proposals on contractual
arrangements, as contained in his report on human resources management reform
(A/59/263/Add.1), with the proviso that should a mission close, the obligation of the
Organization to the staff member’s employment would end.

39. That being said, the Advisory Committee was informed that the proposed use
of 100 series fixed-term appointments in field missions could be de-linked from the
Secretary-General’s reform initiatives. Moreover, if the continuing appointment was
not approved by the General Assembly, or it was decided that it would not be
applied to the field, staff would continue to be employed under the 100 series fixed-
term appointments.



11

A/59/446

40. The financial implications of the proposed conversion of international staff
members currently engaged under appointments of limited duration (300 series) to
100 series is addressed in section VI of the Secretary-General’s report (A/59/291),
but this requires clarification. The projected financial implication of reappointing
1,535 staff members is estimated at $16.5 million. The Advisory Committee was
informed that that estimate was the maximum additional cost if all 1,535 staff were
reappointed under the 100 series, at the current time, as compared to the status quo.
However, the Committee notes that an individual review would be undertaken of
each of the 1,535 staff, to determine whether they meet the three basic requirements,
namely, a global need for their skills and expertise, a continuing need for their
services in the mission and a satisfactory record of performance, which could
decrease the number of reappointments. The Committee was informed that the
review would be conducted in a phased manner on the basis of seniority in service,
beginning with those who had reached their fourth year on appointments of limited
duration by the end of December 2004, and proceeding as rapidly as possible until
all eligible staff had been considered for conversion.

41. Another way to implement the conversion would be to do it in a phased
manner, converting only staff who reach the four-year limit, instead of the across-
the-board conversion now proposed. The Advisory Committee enquired as to the
cost of such phased conversion. The information provided is attached as annex IV. A
decision would be required on how to proceed with the appointment of new field
staff.

42. As to the conversion of 4,547 national staff members, the Advisory Committee
notes that the financial impact is described as “insignificant”, since the
compensation package related to this category of staff is similar under both the 300
and 100 series. The Committee was informed that the only elements affected were
dependency allowance, salary increments, and higher pensionable remuneration, but
since the salaries were paid in local currency, the difference converted into the
United States dollar was not considered to have a significant impact. The Committee
regrets that the issue of national staff was not further elaborated in the report. For
example, the Committee has frequently called for greater use to be made of national
staff and for greater collaboration among missions in the same region; would it be
feasible to consider use of the staff outside the mission for which they were
recruited, but in another mission in the same region?

43. The Advisory Committee expresses concern at the fact that there is no
mention of possible long-term liabilities such as after-service health insurance
and pension benefits, as a result of the conversion, or of the additional costs for
hiring future staff in the 100 series. A comparison of entitlements of international
mission personnel on 100 and 300 series is contained in table 6 of the annex to the
Secretary-General’s report. Information received, upon request, comparing the staff
costs for a P-4 level staff member under a 100 and 300 series appointment is also
provided as annex V to the present report. However, the Committee was informed
that it was impossible to indicate the magnitude of the impact at the current stage.

44. Moreover, staff members under the 300 series appointments are already
participants in the United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund, but would become
vested in the Fund only after five years of participation (A/59/291, annex, table 6).
As to after-service health insurance, there is a possibility of liability once the staff
member meets the eligibility criteria. Upon enquiry, the Advisory Committee was



12

A/59/446

informed that to be eligible for after-service health insurance, a staff member must
retire at the age of 55 or more with a monthly pension benefit, and have at least five
years of participation in a United Nations health insurance scheme under a 100 or
200 series contract (ST/AI/394). Staff members holding 300 series appointments
would not be eligible for after-service health insurance unless they had participated
in a United Nations insurance scheme for at least 10 years under a 100 series
appointment and had been reappointed under a 300 series contract without a break
in service, provided all other conditions were met (ST/AI/2001/2). Furthermore, the
period of service under a 300 series of a staff member converted to the 100 series
was not counted towards the minimum of five years required to be eligible for after-
service health insurance.

45. Section V of the Secretary-General’s report provides the historical background
for the creation of the 300 series, as well as information regarding the
implementation of that type of appointment and its evolution to date. The Advisory
Committee enquired as to the possibility of increased administrative work as a result
of the proposed conversion. As indicated in paragraphs 47 to 49, the compensation
package of the appointments of limited duration was originally designed to be
simple to administer. However, changes were gradually introduced by the
Secretariat and, as a consequence, it assumed the responsibility for arranging
appointments of limited duration staff travel, enhancing the annual and maternity
leave entitlements, and providing a family element in the service allowance to allow
appointments of limited duration staff and eligible family members insurance
coverage and participation in the group’s life insurance scheme, thus making it
administratively more complex to manage. The same recruitment requirements and
procedures are applied equally under both the 100 and 300 series.

46. The Advisory Committee was further informed that the introduction of the
Integrated Management Information System (IMIS) in the field should facilitate the
administrative work. However, some increase would be expected for the processing
of education grant claims, although these were being streamlined with the issuance
of administrative instruction ST/AI/2004/2, and training would be provided in field
missions in processing such claims so that the function could be delegated to the
field.

47. As can be seen from the concerns expressed in the paragraphs above,
while the problems and challenges faced are very well articulated in the
Secretary-General’s report, the solution proposed still raises a number of
questions. The Advisory Committee has previously pointed out that the
question of the re-configuration of the staff regulations is a matter for which a
policy decision by the General Assembly is required (see A/37/675). In order to
provide assistance for an informed discussion, the Committee submits the
following options.

Option 1

48. The General Assembly could endorse the Secretary-General’s proposal
(A/59/291, section VII), to use the 100 series of the Staff Rules for the appointment
of staff in field missions for periods of six months or longer, for functions for which
there is a continuing requirement. Such a course of action would recognize that
many staff had already been converted, as mentioned in paragraph 37 above, and
would have the advantage of speed.



13

A/59/446

49. However, it should be pointed out that such a conversion would require
adjustments and refinements as it is being implemented since, in the opinion of
the Committee, the wholesale incorporation into the 100 series will inevitably
lead to complications that have not yet been foreseen. Among these, for
example, are the lack of transparency that would result from attempting to
cover a wide variety of different categories of staff (national, mission-specific
international, international) under one set of regulations. In addition, there are
other potential complications that may have to be addressed as the new
procedures are being implemented, for example, the disparities in conditions of
service between United Nations field staff and those of funds and programmes
(para. 32 above), the career aspirations of national staff (para. 42 above), and
problems that may eventually arise when some 100 series staff are required to
reapply at the end of each mission, while others, outposted from Headquarters,
are guaranteed reabsorption upon completion of their field assignment.

50. If this proposal is accepted, great care should be taken to convert only those
whose continued service is essential at the mission in which they serve. These staff
should have a demonstrated superior ability to meet the requirements for skills and
expertise, taking into account the overall needs of the Organization in terms of
numbers and skills.

Option 2

51. The General Assembly could recognize that a piecemeal, ad hoc approach
is not appropriate in dealing with such a significant number of staff performing
a major activity of the Organization — a total of 6,082 currently holding
appointments of limited duration as indicated above. Recognizing that a “one
size fits all” approach is not transparent, and may only lead to difficulties in
implementation, time should be allowed to develop an innovative and
comprehensive system incorporating features of both the present 100 and 300
systems. The new system would also incorporate the further work to be done by
the Secretariat on improving equity in the conditions of service among field
staff (see para. 35 above) as well as what may emerge from the involvement of
the International Civil Service Commission. The financial implications should
also be clearly spelled out. This system would thus be uniquely suited to the
needs of the field staff supporting peacekeeping operations as well as the
requirements of the Organization in this area both now and for the long term.

52. Until this has been developed, and subject to the considerations in
paragraph 41 above, current arrangements contemplated by the Secretary-
General could be applied to currently serving international staff as an interim
measure in order to solve the immediate problem of the international staff who
are now nearing completion of the four-year ceiling. When a comprehensive
system for a “cadre of highly mobile, experienced, trained and multi-skilled
civilian peacekeepers in a variety of occupational fields” (see para. 30 above) is
developed, proposals could also be put forward as to how it should be referred
to.



14

A/59/446

VII. Mobility

53. The Advisory Committee notes the information provided in the report of the
Secretary-General (A/59/263) concerning efforts to increase mobility in the
Secretariat, including implementation of reassignment exercises, both voluntary and
mandatory, for junior Professional staff. The Committee notes that of the 100 P-2
staff members reassigned to date, approximately one third were promoted, while the
rest moved laterally (ibid., para. 74). The Committee received detailed information
on the implementation plan for mobility. This information raised a number of
questions with regard to the extent to which planning has been completed to date
and the cost of the exercise.

54. The Advisory Committee welcomes the emphasis placed on promoting the
mobility of staff in the P-3 to D-2 levels. The Committee has consistently
supported the concept of increased mobility as a means to develop a more
flexible and multi-skilled workforce. The Committee recalls that the General
Assembly, in section III.D, paragraph 6, of its resolution 51/226, requested the
Secretary-General to pursue the development and implementation of the
managed reassignment programmes for entry level and other staff as outlined
in his report on the implementation of his strategy (A/C.5/51/1, paras. 29-31)
and to budget the required posts accordingly.

55. The Advisory Committee points out that this is to be a gradual approach
(see A/59/263, para. 82), which is consistent with the obligations staff assume
when joining the United Nations. Nonetheless, 2007 will mark a qualitative, as
well as a quantitative, change in the United Nations reassignment programme.
In this connection, the Committee notes that the General Assembly exercises
legislative oversight over all personnel matters. The Committee also notes that
the Assembly, in section II, paragraph 53 of its resolution 57/305, requested the
Secretary-General to closely monitor mobility and to submit proposals to the
Assembly for consideration at its fifty-ninth session, in order to solve any
problems resulting from increased staff mobility.

56. The Advisory Committee requests the Secretary-General, in his next
report on human resources management, to continue to report on the concerns
raised by the Assembly in its resolutions 51/226, 53/221, 55/258 and 57/305, and
to address the financial implications of the reassignment programme. In
particular, the Committee points to the considerations expressed in section II,
paragraphs 49 and 52, of resolution 57/305 and section V, paragraphs 1 to 8, of
resolution 55/258, especially as regards the need to take steps to ensure that
mobility will not be used as an instrument of coercion against staff, the need to
recognize the difference between movement within a duty station and mobility
across duty stations, and the need to ensure that lateral mobility does not
negatively affect the continuity and quality of the services required for the
implementation of mandated programmes and activities.

57. The Advisory Committee also reiterates its view that staff members
requested by the Organization to remain on mission assignment, whatever the
period of time, should be guaranteed the ability to return to a job in their
occupational network and duty station (see A/55/499, para. 14).



15

A/59/446

VIII. Consultants

58. In accordance with section V, paragraph 8, of General Assembly resolution
57/305, the Secretary-General has issued a biennial report on consultants and
individual contractors within the Secretariat and the regional commissions for 2002-
2003 (A/59/217). Implementation of the Integrated Management Information
System (IMIS) was completed in all offices away from Headquarters during the
course of 2002. IMIS therefore has served as the main source of data for the report.

59. The findings are succinctly summarized in paragraph 24 of the report. While
the Advisory Committee appreciates the wealth of detail provided by IMIS, the
information is of limited value. The Committee would have liked to see the
Office of Human Resources Management take a more analytical approach in
the preparation of the report. In this connection, the Committee recalls that the
Board of Auditors identified some 10 problem areas associated with the hiring
of consultants and individual contractors that could have been addressed.4 The
General Assembly, in its resolutions 53/221 and 57/305 and the staff
representatives, in their paper (see A/C.5/59/4, paras. 67-71), have also
identified a number of issues that need attention. The Committee requests the
Office to broaden the scope of the report in future to include more analysis and
to assess the compliance of practice in hiring of experts and consultants with
existing rules and regulations.

60. The General Assembly has stipulated, inter alia, that consultants should be
used where expertise is not available within the Organization, and this has been
repeatedly referred to by the Advisory Committee in its reports on the regular
budget and on peacekeeping operations. There is, however, at present no way to
monitor this. The enhanced monitoring capacity of the Office of Human Resources
Management (see para. 9 above) should enable this problem to be addressed so that
a satisfactory solution may be found.

61. Upon enquiry concerning the results of the staff skills inventory carried out in
1998, the Advisory Committee was informed that the response level was relatively
low and that problems were encountered with the technology used to gather the
data. The Committee understands that a new skills inventory is planned for the near
future. The Committee urges the Office of Human Resources Management to
complete this project expeditiously.

IX. Employment of retired former staff

62. The Advisory Committee notes from the report of the Secretary-General on
employment of retired former staff (A/59/222) that compared with the biennium
2000-2001, the number of engagements of retirees increased by 65 per cent, the
number of days worked increased by 99 per cent and the fees and salaries rose by
156 per cent. The reasons for the increases can be grouped into two broad
categories. First, conference services in major duty stations experienced an increase
in the number of meetings and required documentation at a time when there was a
simultaneous increase in the number of retirements. Secondly, major increases in
peacekeeping activities and humanitarian presence in the field required a rapid
reinforcement of backstopping capacity in the relevant departments. Many new
posts were authorized for this purpose and were temporarily filled with retirees,



16

A/59/446

pending appointment of candidates through the regular selection process. In this
connection, the Committee notes that the number of retirees hired to perform
substantive functions in the biennium 2002-2003 increased by 254 per cent in
comparison with 2000-2001 (ibid., paras. 13, 21 and 22).

63. The Advisory Committee was given to understand that some staff, upon
reaching retirement age, are recruited and given the option to re-enter the Pension
Fund, and that once this occurs, they are no longer listed as retirees. Nonetheless,
these persons occupy posts, which, with better planning, could be used for
rejuvenation of the system. The Committee cautions that the hiring of retirees to
meet immediate organizational requirements does not obviate the need for
proper succession planning. Progress in the streamlining of the staff selection
process (see paras. 12-19 above) should also have an impact on the need for
retirees.

X. Rejuvenation

64. The Advisory Committee notes from the report of the Secretary-General on the
composition of the Secretariat (A/59/299, para. 54) that as at 30 June 2004 the
average age of the staff was 46 years, which is the same as it was on 30 June 2003.
More than 57 per cent of all Secretariat staff are older than 45. The Committee is
concerned that the need for rejuvenation of the staff of the Secretariat is not being
given enough attention. The Committee recalls, in this connection, that the General
Assembly, in its resolution 57/305 requested the Secretary-General to examine the
factors that inhibit the selection of young people and to report accordingly to the
Assembly at its fifty-ninth session (sect. II, para. 46).

65. The Advisory Committee recommends that greater efforts be made to hire
qualified and skilled young persons to carry out the functions that the
Secretariat is using retired staff for. As noted above, the number of entry-level
Professional positions in the Secretariat is low. This may mean that levels of
posts to be vacated by retirees will need to be re-evaluated prior to initiating
recruitment procedures.

XI. Improvement of equitable geographical representation in
the Secretariat

66. The Advisory Committee welcomes the efforts made to improve equitable
geographical representation in the Secretariat (see A/59/264). It notes that the
number of non-represented Member States declined from 28 in 1994 to 15 in 2004,
while the number of underrepresented Member States decreased from 25 in 1994 to
10 in 2004 (ibid., table 1). The Committee was informed that the number of
overrepresented Member States had increased from 20 in 1994 to 21 in 2004. At the
same time, the Committee notes that recruitments for posts subject to geographical
distribution from non-represented and underrepresented Member States averaged
21 per cent, fluctuating between a high of 33.3 per cent and a low of 10 per cent in
the past 11 years (ibid., table 3). The Committee trusts that the measures that are
being taken to improve equitable geographical representation will be pursued
vigorously and will have concrete results.



17

A/59/446

67. With regard to recruitment through the national competitive examinations, the
Committee notes that out of 534 successful candidates in the past 10 years, 141
came from non-represented and underrepresented Member States (ibid., para. 8).
The Committee welcomes the introduction of the “fast track” recruitment procedure
for positions at the P-4 level and above, whereby internal and external candidates
from non-represented and underrepresented Member States who have been endorsed
by the central review bodies are placed on a special roster, which will be made
available to programme managers with vacancies at the P-4 level and above. If a
suitable candidate is found from the roster, such a candidate would be recruited
without the issuance of a vacancy announcement (ibid., paras. 21 and 22). In this
connection, the Advisory Committee welcomes the establishment of a focal
point at the P-5 level in the Office of Human Resources Management to work
closely with departments, candidates and Member States (ibid., para. 24). The
Advisory Committee notes that in paragraph 23 of his report, the Secretary-General
proposed that Member States designate focal points within their permanent missions
to work with the Secretariat on various aspects of increasing their representation.

XII. Improving gender distribution

68. The Advisory Committee notes from the reports of the Secretary-General on
improving gender distribution in the Secretariat (A/59/263/Add.2) and improvement
of the status of women in the United Nations system (A/59/357) that progress in the
attainment of the goal of 50/50 gender distribution in all categories of posts within
the United Nations system has been slow. In the United Nations Secretariat, as at
30 June 2004, the representation of women at the D-1 level and above with
appointments of one year or more had increased since 30 June 2003 by 3.4 per cent,
from 25.6 to 29 per cent. In the P-1 to P-5 levels, the representation of women
increased by 1.6 per cent, from 36.7 to 38.3 per cent (see A/59/357, table 1). Women
constitute the majority of the staff members in the General Service category, with 62
per cent as at 30 June 2004, and in the P-1 category, with 83.3 per cent (however,
there are only 6 P-1 posts Secretariat-wide). While these figures represent modest
gains, table 3 of document A/59/357 shows that the figures for annual average
percentage change in the representation of women with appointments of one year or
more in the Professional and higher categories for the period from 1998 to 2004 are
very low, with the highest being 3.2 per cent at the P-1 level, the next highest 1.8 for
the D-2 level, and the lowest being a negative average annual percentage change for
staff at the P-4 level.

69. The Advisory Committee notes that the percentage of women appointed at the
Under-Secretary-General level decreased from 20.0 per cent in the period from July
2002 to June 2003 to 14.3 per cent in 2003-2004. At the Assistant Secretary-General
level, the percentage of women appointed increased from 28.6 per cent in 2002/03
to 33.3 per cent in 2003/04 (ibid., table 4). The Advisory Committee encourages
the Secretary-General to continue his efforts towards achieving gender parity,
including at the Under-Secretary-General and Assistant Secretary-General
levels. Care must be taken, however, to ensure that such efforts do not unduly
affect the timely filling of vacancies and are in conformity with Article 101,
paragraph 3, of the Charter of the United Nations.



18

A/59/446

Notes

1 See, for example, Official Records of the General Assembly, 58th Session, Supplement No. 76
(A/58/7) para. VIII.29.

2 Ibid., para. 30.
3 Ibid., para. 66.
4 Ibid., Fifty-ninth Session, Supplement No. 5 (A/59/5), vol. I, chap. II, paras. 255 and 256.



19

A/59/446

Annex I
Average timelines for filling of vacancies and ways
to improve

Actions performed Responsibility

Average
number of

days Ways to shorten the timeline

Executive officer assigns vacancy to
manager

Executive or
administrative office

1

Manager builds the vacancy/evaluation
criteria

Programme manager 14

Programme manager submits the
vacancy/evaluation criteria for human
resources review

Programme manager 5

Human resources submits the
vacancy/evaluation criteria to central
review body

Human resources officer 4

Central review body approves the
evaluation criteria

Central review body 7

Human resources officer sends the
vacancy for translation (Professional
level only)

Translation service 14

(a) Wider use of generic job
profiles

(b) Ongoing briefings for
managers, central review
body members and staff

(c) Enhanced translation
capacity

Human resources officer posts the
vacancy on the Internet

Human resources officer 2

Human resources officer reviews
applicants from the date of advertising

Human resources officer ongoing

Human resources officer submits 15-day
eligible candidates to the programme case
officer

Human resources officer 7

Programme case officer reviews 15-day
candidates

Programme manager 14

Human resources officer submits 30-day
eligible candidates to the programme case
officer

Human resources officer 17

Programme manager reviews 30-day
eligible candidates

Programme manager 20

Human resources officer submits 60-day
eligible candidates to the manager

Human resources officer 25

(d) Reduction of advertisement
time from 60 to 45 days

(e) Continued improvement in
the application of screening
tool in Galaxy



20

A/59/446

Actions performed Responsibility

Average
number of

days Ways to shorten the timeline

Programme manager reviews 60-day
eligible candidates

Programme manager 27

Programme manager recommends
suitable applicants to head of department

Programme manager 5

Head of department recommends
applicants to the central review body for
endorsing

Head of department 2

Central review body endorses applicants Central review body 6

Head of department selects candidate
from central review body endorsed
applicants

Head of department 4



21

A/59/446

Annex II
Number of General Service posts classified by level as at
7 October 2004

Grade Other level Principal level Total

G-1 2 2

G-2 9 9

G-3 103 103

G-4 1 714 1 714

G-5 456 456

G-6 332 332

G-7 265 265

Total 2 616 265 2 881



22

A/59/446

Annex III
Special operations approach

• United Nations funds and programmes and separately administered office(s)
using the special operations approach:

United Nations Development Programme, United Nations Children’s Fund,
United Nations Population Fund, United Nations Office for Project Services,
Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.

The World Food Programme has approved the approach and is in the process
of implementing it.

• Rationale and brief description of the special operations approach:

The special operations approach recognizes the fact that staff members in non-
family duty stations (security phase III and above) need to maintain a separate
household outside of the duty station, and that the employer organization
should facilitate reunion of the family by giving the staff the option of
installing their families in a location with appropriate facilities situated near
the actual place of work. This is the administrative place of assignment. The
administrative place of assignment becomes the official duty station of the
staff member who is then considered to be on mission detail to the non-family
location.

• Comparison with mission staff of the Department of Peacekeeping Operations

Special operations approach Mission appointees, 300 series Mission appointees, 100 series

Base salary and annual increments Base salary Base salary and annual
increments

Service allowance

Dependency benefits Dependency benefits

Post adjustment (administrative place of
assignment rate)

Rental subsidy (at administrative place of
assignment rate)

Mobility and Hardship (administrative place
of assignment rate)

Assignment grant to administrative place of
assignment

Hazard pay Hazard pay Hazard pay

Special operations living allowance Mission subsistence allowance Mission subsistence allowance

Education grant Education grant



23

A/59/446

Special operations approach Mission appointees, 300 series Mission appointees, 100 series

Travel to administrative place of assignment
for family for assignments of one year or
longer

Home leave Travel allowance Home leave

Family visit travel Family visit travel

Unaccompanied shipment or relocation grant
($10,000 single rate, $15,000 family rate for
assignments of one year or longer, or
extended beyond one year)

Unaccompanied shipment
(100 kg or $1,200 for
appointments of less than one
year)

Unaccompanied shipment (100
kg or $1,200)

Repatriation grant Repatriation grant



24

A/59/446

Annex IV
Breakdown of financial implications by fiscal year
(United States dollars)

Number of staff Amount

Fiscal year
Peacekeeping

missions
Special political

missions Total
Peacekeeping

missions
Special political

missions Total

2003/04 39 4 43 446 381 42 970 489 351

2004/05 357 9 366 3 702 174 94 573 3 796 747

2005/06 313 23 336 3 305 446 266 063 3 571 509

2006/07 299 55 354 3 226 774 614 042 3 840 816

2007/08 369 57 426 4 016 720 664 775 4 681 495

2008/09 10 - 10 120 082 - 120 082

1 387 148 1 535 14 817 577 1 682 423 16 500 000



25

A/59/446

Annex V
Comparison of salaries at the P-4 level
(in United States dollars)

P-4, dependent spouse plus one child

300 Series at P-4/A
(dependency rate)

100 Series at P-4/1
(dependency rate) Difference

Salary 58 041 62 327 4 286

Service allowance 11 515 0 (11 515)

Organization’s pension contribution 17 842 17 842 1 642

Dependency allowance 0 1 936 1 936

Education grant 0 11 115 11 115

Family visit travel 0 2 500 2 500

P-4, single rate

300 Series at P-4/A 100 Series at P-4/1 Difference

Salary 58 041 58 041 0

Service allowance 4 063 0 (4 063)

Organization’s pension contribution 17 842 17 842 0

Dependency allowance 0 0 0

Education grant 0 0 0

Family visit travel 0 0 0


