
United Nations A/59/539

 

General Assembly Distr.: General
28 October 2004

Original: English

04-57702 (E)    291004

*0457702*

Fifty-ninth session
Agenda item 108
Programme budget for the biennium 2004-2005

Strengthened and Unified Security Management System for
the United Nations

Report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and
Budgetary Questions

1. The report of the Secretary-General on a strengthened and unified security
management system for the United Nations (A/59/365 and Corr.1) examines the
current state of the United Nations security system and contains proposals for a
second phase of longer-term measures, as envisaged in the phase I report of the
Secretary-General on strengthening the security and safety of United Nations
operations, staff and premises (A/58/756). The addendum to the phase II report
(A/59/365/Add.1 and Add.1/Corr.1) contains revised estimates under various
sections of the programme budget for the biennium 2004-2005 resulting from the
proposed phase II security measures.

I. Background

2. Following the events of September 2001 in the United States, the Secretary-
General proposed short-term measures to strengthen the security and safety of the
United Nations. The related requirements of $3,573,600 were reported to the
General Assembly at its fifty-sixth session in the second performance report of the
Secretary-General on the programme budget for the biennium 2001-2002 (A/56/674
and Corr.1). The Secretary-General has reported that those short-term measures
have been largely implemented (A/56/848).

3. In that report (A/56/848), the Secretary-General proposed long-term measures
for the strengthening of security and safety. The total estimated cost of the proposed
measures amounted to $57,785,300, including the cost of 130 new regular budget
posts. The General Assembly, by its resolution 56/286, approved the proposed
measures and appropriated the requested funding of $57,785,300.

4. The phase I measures for strengthening the security and safety were proposed
by the Secretary-General in his above-mentioned report (A/58/756). The related



2
A/59/539

regular budget requirements of $71,881,600 largely covered security infrastructure
enhancements as well as a number of new security posts. The comments and
recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary
Questions with regard to the phase I security measures are contained in its report
thereon (A/58/758). The General Assembly, by its resolution 58/295, approved an
amount of $56,369,000 under the regular budget (including a commitment of
$38,033,200 for the financing of infrastructure projects) for the phase I security
measures. The General Assembly also approved the establishment of 58 field
security posts for the Office of the United Nations Security Coordinator and decided
to revert to the question of possible conversion of the 58 extrabudgetary field
security posts of the Office of the United Nations Security Coordinator during the
fifty-ninth session. The General Assembly further approved funding for additional
posts to be financed from general temporary assistance during the six-month period
from 1 July to 31 December 2004 (see annex I to the present report).

5. The following table, which is based on data provided by the Secretariat, is
limited to data on the implementation of security-related infrastructure projects
approved for under General Assembly resolutions 56/286 and 58/295 (phase I)
(thousands of United States dollars):

Duty station

Approved by
resolution

56/286
(June 2002)

Approved by
resolution

58/295
(June 2004)

Total
approved

funding

Funds
committed by

September 2004 Balance

Headquarters 26 000.0 15 129.2 41 129.2 33 460.5 7 668.7

United Nations Office at Geneva 19 443.2 17 907.0 37 350.2 15 504.0 21 846.2

United Nations Office at Vienna 1 250.0 6 916.0 8 166.0 1 959.8 6 206.2

United Nations Office at Nairobi 521.0 3 378.4 3 899.4 1 010.6 2 888.9

Economic Commission for Africa 333.5 2 220.0 2 553.5 519.7 2 033.8

Economic Commission for Latin
America and the Caribbean 146.1 210.0 356.1 164.1 192.0

Economic and Social Commission
for Asia and the Pacific 101.6 774.6 876.2 513.6 362.6

Total 47 795.4 46 535.2 94 330.6 53 132.3 41 198.4

Annex II to the present report, which has been provided by the Secretariat, gives a
detailed description of the implementation status of various infrastructure
improvement projects.

6. The Committee points out that the total of $94.3 million approved for phase I
reflects various stages of project implementation: a number of projects have been
completed, while the majority of them are still in progress. As can be seen from the
above table, a balance of $41.2 million has yet to be committed. The Committee was
provided upon enquiry with the breakdown of funds committed for the projects by
pre-encumbrance, obligations and disbursement.

7. This data points to a particular problem at the United Nations Office at
Geneva, which shows a high amount of pre-encumbrance ($9,321,500), or 60.1 per
cent compared with the total disbursement of $15,504,000. The Committee recalls
its observation and concern that the high level of pre-encumbrances is indicative of



3
A/59/539

slow progress in the implementation of projects funded from the construction-in-
progress account. The Committee notes that the Office of Internal Oversight
Services (OIOS), in its report on the utilization and management of funds
appropriated during the 2002-2003 biennium for strengthening the security and
safety of United Nations premises (A/59/396), also pointed to delays in the
implementation of security strengthening projects at the United Nations Office at
Geneva.

8. The Committee notes that a number of deficiencies in planning and
administering the infrastructure improvement projects at Headquarters were
identified by OIOS in its report on the utilization and management of funds
appropriated during the 2002-2003 biennium. The Committee also notes that the
Administration accepted the OIOS recommendations and is working on the required
changes to the planning process.

II. Report on phase II

9. The Secretary-General estimates the total costs of the proposed phase II
measures for strengthening the security and safety of the United Nations at $97.1
million (gross) for 2004-2005, including one-time requirements, of $29.6 million.
As indicated in the addendum to the report of the Secretary-General
(A/59/365/Add.1), the estimated total of $97.1 million would provide for the
following:

(a) Strengthened and unified security management structure: $71.5 million,
including:

(i) $14.2 million for a Directorate of Security;

(ii) $35.7 million for field security locations;

(iii) $17.5 million for the reinforcement of the United Nations Security and
Safety Services at Headquarters and in the seven main offices of the Organization;

(iv) $4.1 million for other locations;

(b) Implementation of a number of projects to bring infrastructure and
procedures up to a satisfactory standard of compliance with headquarters minimum
operating security standards: $10.4 million;

(c) Global access control system: $11.2 million;

(d) Training: $4 million.

10. The Secretary-General’s proposals provide for an additional 778 posts, of
which 195 would be at the Professional or higher level and the remaining 583 in the
General Service and related categories. The additional 778 posts include 34
conversions from existing general temporary assistance (24 in the United Nations
Truce Supervision Organization, the United Nations Military Observer Group in
India and Pakistan, and the Office of the United Nations Special Coordinator in the
Occupied Territories) and extrabudgetary posts (10 in the Office of the United
Nations Security Coordinator).

11. The Committee was informed that the Office of the United Nations Security
Coordinator guided the formulation of proposals for an increase in the capacity of



4
A/59/539

the Security and Safety Services as well as for the design of a global access control
system. The Committee was further informed that the Organization also sought the
expertise of safety and security specialists for an external validation of the proposals
across duty stations. In the case of the Security and Safety Services, the assessments
were conducted against industry best standards and headquarters minimum
operating security standards criteria. With regard to the design of the global access
control system, the assessment focused on the technical soundness and cost-
effectiveness of the proposed system against the requirements of headquarters
minimum operating security standards (see A/59/365/Add.1, para. 5).

12. No new resources are proposed for peacekeeping operations and Tribunals,
since, according to the Secretary-General, their main requirements have been
substantially addressed in the phase I report. The Secretary-General indicates that
requirements of special political missions will be addressed in the context of the
review, during the fifty-ninth session, of the report entitled “Special political
missions: estimates in respect of matters of which the Security Council is seized”.

13. The Committee further notes that the total estimated requirements of $97.1
million proposed at phase II are separate from provisions that have been or will be
proposed by the individual United Nations funds, programmes and specialized
agencies through their executive boards relating to their security structures at
headquarters and in the field.

14. The report of the Secretary-General (A/59/365 and Corr.1) takes into account an
evaluation of the United Nations security management system by a team of independent
security experts concluded in August 2003, just prior to the attack of 19 August
2003 in Baghdad, as well as the recommendations of the Independent Panel on the
Safety and Security of United Nations Personnel on its investigation of the Baghdad
attack. The Committee notes that the report of the Secretary-General also takes into
account a number of the Committee’s comments and recommendations in its last
report (A/58/758). With regard to paragraph 7 of its last report, the Committee notes
that the Secretariat has acknowledged that, at the present time, it does not possess
the capability to conduct security threat and risk assessments and timely and
comprehensive follow-on planning on either a global or a country-level basis (see
A/59/365, para. 30; see also A/59/365, para. 54; and para. 20 below). In response to
paragraph 6 (f) of General Assembly resolution 58/295, the Secretary-General is
requesting resources to develop this capacity.

15. That being stated, the Committee would have appreciated a statement of
the underlying assumptions which described, in general terms, the nature of the
threat and the basic principles relied upon by the United Nations to develop the
response represented by the proposals in the report of the Secretary-General.
The absence of such a basic framework, together with the fact that the
proposed security management system has been formulated on what has been
described by the Committee as a piecemeal basis (see A/58/758, para. 6), has
made consideration of the Secretary-General’s proposals more difficult. The
Committee also observes that the report lacks information on workload
statistics and the extent to which requests for material and equipment have
been based on objective technical standards. Although not included in the
report, details on staff resources involved in the field security arrangements of
United Nations funds and programmes were provided to the Committee upon
request and are reproduced in annex III to the present report.



5
A/59/539

16. The Committee provides below a series of observations and
recommendations on a unified security management system for the United
Nations, in which the Committee takes the view that the new system should be
primarily focused on the field, with a streamlined central capacity at
Headquarters, and that the new system should be fully integrated.

17. Accordingly, the recommendations of the Committee set out below call for
shifts of assets and economies of resources in some areas. There is also much
work to be done in achieving full integration and bringing arrangements with
host Governments up to date. The Committee is therefore of the view that an
implementation report should be submitted to the General Assembly at its
sixtieth session.

III. Specific observations and recommendations of
the Committee

Host-country agreements

18. In paragraph 14 of his report (A/59/365 and Corr.1), the Secretary-General
indicates that the primary responsibility for the security and protection of staff
members, their spouses, dependants and property rests with the host Government.
Annex VI of the addendum to the report (A/59/365/Add.1 and Add.1/Corr.1)
provides information on the United Nations cooperation with, and the role and
responsibilities of, host countries. The Committee exchanged views with
representatives of the Secretary-General at Headquarters and in the field (through
videoconferencing) on the status of host-country agreements vis-à-vis security and
their practical implementation.

19. The Committee was informed during its deliberations that, while the host
countries where the United Nations has established offices, when approached,
respond positively to the organization’s security concerns, formal agreements with
them do not always address or reflect current security challenges and the current
security environment. In some cases, the formal agreements do not specify the exact
level of the host-country’s commitment for the security and safety of United Nations
personnel and premises in the country. A number of formal agreements were signed
many years ago, when security concerns and realities were dramatically different,
compared with today’s experience. The Committee is concerned that working
arrangements with host Governments with regard to their responsibilities for
United Nations security and safety were not always finalized in legally binding
written documents (exchange of letters, signed protocols to the formal
agreements etc.). The Committee expects that the updating and revision of
those agreements will be negotiated at the highest level as a matter of priority
(see para. 38 below).

20. The Committee points out that, notwithstanding the willingness of host
countries to assume the responsibility for the security of United Nations staff, their
spouses, dependants and United Nations property, their capacity to assume such
responsibility differs from one duty station to another. The Committee was informed
that while the capacity of host countries in such United Nations locations as New
York, Geneva and Vienna is at a level that meets most security requirements of the
United Nations, some host countries, especially where the United Nations field



6
A/59/539

offices are located, do not possess such a capacity (see para. 45 below). The
Committee is of the view that this uneven capacity of host countries to provide
security to the United Nations should be fully reflected in the Organization’s
approach to security matters. The United Nations should concentrate on
enhancing cooperation and collaboration with national and/or local law
enforcement agencies in locations where host countries have well developed
security structures and means; the United Nations should also make the
maximum use of those countries’ capacity in security threat and risk
assessment. At the same time, in some United Nations field offices in developing
countries which do not have adequate security means and capacity for threat
and risk assessment, special attention should be paid to strengthening the
ability of the United Nations to ensure its own security. The Committee notes
the development by the Office of the United Nations Security Coordinator of a
security risk-management methodology for use at the field level (see A/59/365,
para. 54).

Unified security structure

21. As indicated in paragraph 15 of the report of the Secretary-General, security
services for the United Nations are currently provided through four separate
structures: the Office of the United Nations Security Coordinator; the security
component of the Department of Peacekeeping Operations; the Security and Safety
Services (at New York, Vienna, Geneva, the International Tribunals and the regional
commissions); and the security components of United Nations agencies, funds and
programmes. The Secretary-General proposes to establish a new Directorate of
Security headed by an Under-Secretary-General reporting directly to the Secretary-
General. The proposed Directorate is intended to unify the existing offices of the
Office of the United Nations Security Coordinator, the Security and Safety Services
and the security component of the Department of Peacekeeping Operations in a
single organizational structure. The Secretary-General indicates that the Directorate
would provide common security policies and standards; a central security threat and
risk-assessment capability; operational and technical support to headquarters and
field office security elements; a monitoring and compliance capability; a
strengthened training capacity; and common recruitment and career management of
security personnel (see A/59/365, para. 45).

22. The Committee notes (see A/59/365, para. 37) that day-to-day decision-
making on matters of security will remain decentralized, i.e., security decisions at
the field duty stations will continue to be made by the designated officials; security
decisions at the United Nations Office at Geneva and the United Nations Office at
Vienna will continue to be made by the Directors-General; and for the regional
commissions, as well as at the United Nations Office at Nairobi, security decisions
will continue to be taken under the existing field security management system. A
unit of the proposed Directorate of Security, to be funded from the peacekeeping
support account, would be located in the Department of Peacekeeping Operations to
support the management of the day-to-day security issues of peacekeeping
operations.

23. Moreover, the United Nations agencies, funds and programmes will continue
to operate, recruit and maintain their own security personnel. As indicated in
paragraph 27 of the report (A/59/365 and Corr.1), there are currently some 164
agency-specific security officers working at field duty stations (160 as at 18 October



7
A/59/539

2004; see annex III to the present report). Those officers report to the agency’s head
of office and their main function is to advise their country representative and to be
responsible for the security aspects of activities that are specific to their
organization. The Committee was informed that the High-level Committee on
Management, at its meeting held in Rome on 5 and 6 October 2004, took note of
further work that had to be undertaken on such issues as governance, an
implementation strategy for the new security management system and strengthened
coordination at all headquarters’ locations, including how to maximize partnerships
and collaboration with specialized agencies. The High-level Committee also took
note that the new United Nations Security Directorate would not be responsible for
security at headquarters locations of the specialized agencies, and requested that
both security networks — field and headquarters — submit proposals to the High-
level Committee on mechanisms that would ensure a robust, well coordinated global
security management system.

24. In the opinion of the Committee, although the proposed security structure
represents progress, it appears to be far from unified despite its title. The
Committee points out that much remains to be done if the result of the
reorganization is to be genuine integration rather than merely enhanced
coordination. As it stands now, separate security structures will continue to
exist, with a continuing potential for duplication and potentially dangerous
confusion. Accordingly, at each and every United Nations duty station there
should be an integrated team which has been organized to fully respond to the
requirements of the security profile at that duty station (see also para. 47
below). From the outset, the efforts of the head of the proposed Directorate
should focus on achieving such integration.

Accountability and responsibility framework

25. The Committee points out that genuine integration also needs to be
reflected in the accountability and responsibility framework. In paragraphs 29
to 59 of his report (A/59/365 and Corr.1), the Secretary-General discusses the
reporting lines of participants in the United Nations security management system,
their accountability and responsibility. The Committee was informed, upon enquiry,
that the responsibilities of the Secretary-General and heads of United Nations agencies,
programmes and funds, as set out in paragraph 4 of the Secretary-General’s report
entitled “Interorganizational measures: framework for accountability for the United
Nations field security management system” (A/57/365), would remain intact.

26. Having reviewed the proposed arrangements for the accountability and
responsibility framework and after discussing the matter with the
representatives of the Secretary-General, the Committee still has no clear
understanding of exactly how the lines of reporting and decision-making would
work in complex operations involving regional commissions, peacekeeping
activities, special political missions, and humanitarian and other activities of
United Nations agencies, funds and programmes. The Committee is of the view
that the role of each responsible official, including the chiefs of administration
in each location, and their place in the security framework should be further
clarified. It must be made clear that all lines of authority ultimately lead to the
head of the proposed Directorate, who on behalf of the Secretary-General
should exercise complete and effective control over all security matters



8
A/59/539

pertaining to the United Nations, its funds and programmes and the specialized
agencies insofar as they are represented in the field.

Cost-sharing arrangements

27. As indicated in paragraph 63 of his report (A/59/365 and Corr.1), the
Secretary-General reiterates the proposal made earlier in 2004 to phase out the
current system of cost-sharing. As a transitional arrangement, cost-sharing would
continue with respect to the initial appropriation approved by the General Assembly
for the 2004-2005 programme budget. However, all additional requirements,
subsequent to the initial appropriation for 2004-2005, would be entirely funded from
the United Nations regular budget rather than cost-shared among the organizations
of the United Nations system. Under those arrangements, from 2006 onward, all
costs relating to the Directorate of Security, including the cost of all field security
officer posts, would be funded from the United Nations regular budget, according to
the report of the Secretary-General.

28. However, the current cost-sharing arrangements would continue to apply to the
cost of the malicious acts insurance policy. Similarly, specific arrangements in place
at New York and Vienna for sharing the costs of the central Security and Safety
Services between the United Nations and other entities (the United Nations
Development Programme, the United Nations Children’s Fund, the United Nations
Population Fund, the United Nations Office for Project Services, the International
Atomic Energy Agency, the United Nations Industrial Development Organization
and the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization) based in the two
locations would continue. The current cost-sharing arrangements would also
continue to apply to those organizations not in the United Nations system that are
covered by the United Nations field security management system, including the
International Organization for Migration, the European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development, and the Asian Development Bank.

29. The current cost-sharing arrangements were approved by the General
Assembly in its resolution 56/255, under the terms of which the United Nations field
security management system would assume collective responsibility for the safety
and security of its staff. Thus, field-related costs, which are incurred either in the
field or at headquarters locations through the provision of operational support, are to
be shared on a proportional basis. Central costs related to the management and
direction of the United Nations field security management system are borne by the
United Nations.

30. In paragraphs 61 and 62 of his report (A/59/365 and Corr.1), the Secretary-
General discusses deficiencies in the current cost-sharing arrangements, such as the
reliance by participating agencies, funds and programmes on voluntary
contributions for their assessed share of security costs and practical problems in
implementing the cost-sharing arrangements, including labour-intensive procedures
and censuses, delays in reimbursements and arrears in contributions.

31. The Committee recalls that it had commented extensively on the issue of cost-
sharing in a number of its reports. For example, in paragraph 17 of its report on the
safety and security of United Nations personnel (A/55/658), the Committee stated
the following:



9
A/59/539

“The Committee points out that the current arrangements for sharing the costs
of the security management system were approved by the General Assembly
(see annex I to the present report), and thus cannot be altered without the
approval of the General Assembly. While the Committee agrees that the
procedure for funding should be managed from one source and, further, that
the source should be the United Nations, it is strongly against the proposal to
eliminate cost-sharing among the organizations that participate in and use the
services of the United Nations security management system.”

In paragraph 31 of its report on strengthening the security and safety of United
Nations operations, staff and premises (A/58/758), the Committee indicated that:

“the United Nations Secretariat and United Nations organizations, funds and
programmes share a common responsibility for the security and safety of their
staff and it is in their interest to provide adequate and assured funding for
security. The Committee is of the view that deficiencies in the current funding
arrangement should be addressed in the context of inter-agency mechanisms
for coordination and cooperation. The Committee reiterates its belief in the
importance of adhering to shared financial responsibility in the coordinated
management of the safety and security of United Nations personnel
(see A/56/619, para. 15).”

32. Closely related to this view is the idea that all concerned must share a
common ownership in the system, with the right to participate in decision-
making. To that end, the cost-sharing principle must be maintained, otherwise
there might be a tendency to use the money saved to continue and/or expand
separate systems.

33. Accordingly, the Committee recommends against the proposal to phase
out the cost-sharing arrangements for field-related costs among the
organizations that participate in and use the services of the United Nations field
security management system. That being stated, the Committee, with a view to
enhancing operational flexibility, recommends that the United Nations
appropriate and advance the entire requirement, subject to proportional
reimbursement from the agencies, which would be credited to income section 2.
The Committee was informed, upon enquiry, that the implication of
maintaining the current formula of cost-sharing arrangements in place for field
security would be a reduction in the amount to be assessed on United Nations
Member States by $30,376,400 for 2004-2005. The share of United Nations
funds and programmes would thereby increase by the same amount.

Directorate of Security

34. As indicated in paragraph 21 above, the proposed Directorate is supposed to
unify the existing offices of the Office of the United Nations Security Coordinator,
the Security and Safety Services and the security component of the Department of
Peacekeeping Operations into a single organizational structure. The staffing of the
Directorate would comprise a total of 1,788 posts under a new budget section
(section 36), broken down as follows: 1,034 existing posts of the three components
that are to be unified; 99 new posts for the new Directorate’s central core structure
at Headquarters; and 655 new or converted posts (261 field security officer posts
and 394 Security and Safety Services posts at the regional commissions and the
main offices, including Headquarters).



10

A/59/539

35. The Committee has noticed that elaborate structures which replicate
existing arrangements are often proposed for new and strengthened activities of
the Organization. This tendency must be stopped.

36. It is not necessary for the new security entity to have an autonomous
administrative and support capacity at Headquarters. The Headquarters
operation should focus on policy-setting, general direction, strategic and
forward planning, coordination and monitoring functions. In addition,
Headquarters should continue to liaise with the host-country security
authorities in New York.

37. The Secretary-General proposes to establish a new Under-Secretary-General
post for the head of the proposed Directorate of Security. The Committee notes
that the report of the Secretary-General does not provide information on
whether or not any alternatives to the creation of a new post have indeed been
considered, such as the redeployment of an existing USG post; another
alternative, in the view of the Committee, could have been a proposal to offset
the addition of a new post for a USG by abolishing the existing ASG post of
Security Coordinator, which has been vacant since 29 March 2004.

38. In view of the many important functions and responsibilities both within
the United Nations itself and within the United Nations system that will have to
be assumed by the head of the proposed Directorate, including the integration
of security structures, improving the effectiveness of existing host-country
arrangements and, if mandated by the General Assembly, negotiating a
workable cost-sharing arrangement, the Committee supports the establishment
of a USG post for the head of the proposed Directorate. The Committee stresses
the importance of appointment to the USG post of a security expert with
extensive professional experience in the organization and management of a
complex international security function. Aside from the consultative and other
duties that such a high-level position would entail, this official must be fully
capable of providing direct operational leadership.

39. Bearing in mind what is stated in paragraph 37 above, the Committee is of
the opinion that the case has not been made to maintain the existing ASG post
in addition to the new post for USG. The Committee reiterates that the USG
must be in direct operational charge of the new entity. As such, there does not
appear to be a need for an intermediate bureaucratic layer. Recognizing that
the new USG should have the flexibility to delineate functions and decide how
management responsibilities will be shared among his senior staff, the
Committee expects that recruitment for this crucial USG post will be expedited.
If, on the basis of experience, the head of the new security entity deems it
necessary to have a deputy at the ASG level, the Secretary-General could
propose the creation of such a post in the context of the implementation report
called for in paragraph 17 above.

40. The Committee notes that the head of the proposed Directorate would be
assisted during the initial implementation phase by a specially created
implementation management team headed by a change manager; subsequent
transition phases in 2006 and beyond would be managed from within the existing
staffing resources of the proposed Directorate (see A/59/365/Add.1, para. 15). The
Committee expects that the implementation management team will look



11

A/59/539

carefully into the organizational structure of the proposed Directorate with a
view to rationalizing it, taking into account the views of the Committee.

41. The Committee was informed during its deliberations that the organizational
structure of the proposed Directorate is based on lessons learned and experience
obtained. In addressing the potential weaknesses in standardization, capacity-
building, unified approach and compliance, the organizational structure of the
proposed Directorate comprises dedicated organizational units, such as a Policy,
Planning and Coordination Unit; a Compliance, Evaluation and Monitoring Unit; a
Threat and Risk Analysis Unit; and a Training and Standardization Unit. The
Committee is of the opinion that the establishment of a core capacity with those
dedicated units is justifiable and logical, and is consistent with what is stated by
the Committee in paragraph 36 above.

42. At the same time, the organizational structure of the proposed Directorate
contains dedicated support components, such as a Human Resources Management
Section, a Finance and Budget Section, a Logistics Unit and an Information Systems
Support Unit. The Committee questions the rationale for establishing those
units. The Committee is of the view that support services should be provided
through existing Secretariat-wide administrative units, such as the Office of
Human Resources Management, the Office of Programme Planning, Budget
and Accounts, the Procurement Division and the Information Technology
Services Division. Accordingly, the Committee recommends against establishing
any of the posts for the above-mentioned administrative support units of the
proposed Directorate.

43. The Committee recommends that, instead of establishing additional
administrative support units, the Secretariat establish an Executive Office to
provide the traditional support to the proposed Directorate. The Executive
Office should be patterned on existing executive offices for organizational units
of similar size, such as that for the Department of Management, which has a
total of 17 posts headed by a D-1. Resource requirements should be met
through redeployment, to the maximum extent possible.

44. With the creation of an Executive Office, the remainder of the Division of
Administration and Field Support should be renamed to reflect those functions
which it will continue to perform (critical incident stress management, training
and standardization). There would no longer be a need for the new unit to be
headed by a D-2; instead, a D-1 should be in charge, assisted by one P-4 and
one General Service (Other level) in his office. The reconfiguration proposed by
the Committee should be carried out with the assistance of the implementation
management team (see para. 40 above) and the results should be indicated in
the implementation report requested in paragraph 17 above.

45. The Committee is of the firm view that the United Nations security system
should be primarily focused on the field, with a streamlined central capacity at
Headquarters. While United Nations entities have responsibility for their
premises, headquarters locations should and can rely on host Governments for
primary responsibility for security. In general, they command resources and
experience in these matters which the United Nations can draw upon. It is in
the field where, in some cases, Governments have neither the resources nor the
experience to meet all United Nations security needs; indeed, in some places
where the United Nations operates, there may not yet be a fully functioning



12

A/59/539

national government to undertake this responsibility. The United Nations must
therefore assume responsibility for security at some field duty stations and
resources should be allocated with this in mind (see para. 20 above).

46. The proposed structure of the Division of Regional Operations, with its five
regional desks, appears to have been designed following the model of similar
structures in the Department of Peacekeeping Operations and the Department of
Political Affairs and is thus heavily concentrated at Headquarters. The Committee
notes the statement in paragraph 53 of the report of the Secretary-General that desk
officers would be expected to travel extensively in their regions of responsibility to
familiarize themselves with the operational environment. The Committee is not
convinced that this would be an adequate substitute for an actual presence in
the field.

47. The Committee therefore requests that the implementation management
team look into the possibility of providing a regional field presence while
maintaining a lean central capacity at Headquarters, using national experience
where relevant. Such a configuration should be accommodated within the total
number of field desk posts now proposed. Field-based officers would be able to
receive information at or very close to the source and to dispense guidance
precisely when and where it is needed; they would also be well placed to
respond to emergencies. The central capacity at Headquarters could receive
information from the field and coordinate with the other central Headquarters
units. The Committee is of the opinion that the regional desk system which
already exists in the Department of Political Affairs and the Department of
Peacekeeping Operations could be utilized to liaise with the new security entity.
The Committee has repeatedly called for close collaboration between the
Department of Political Affairs and the Department of Peacekeeping
Operations desks, and the new security entity should be able to call upon them
as necessary.

48. The implementation report of the Secretary-General called for in
paragraph 17 above should indicate how the decentralization of administrative
services and the possible reconfiguration of regional desks has been carried out,
as well as any possible savings achieved over and above those resulting from the
Committee’s specific recommendations on posts. In offering contracts for the
remaining posts, the Secretary-General should bear in mind that the numbers
and grade levels of those posts will be subject to review in the context of the
implementation report.

Reinforcement of Security and Safety Services

49. An additional 394 posts are proposed for the reinforcement of Security and
Safety Services at Headquarters and at the other seven main United Nations
locations. The distribution of the existing and proposed additional security officer
posts is provided in the following table and in annex IV to the present report:



13

A/59/539

D-1 P-5 P-4 P-3 P-2/1 Subtotal GS/PL GS/OL SS LL Subtotal Total

Headquarters

Existing 1 1 1 1 1 5 1 17 212 - 230 235

New - - 2 - 1 3 - - 88 - 88 91

United Nations Office
at Geneva

Existing - 1 1 1 - 3 3 77 - - 80 83

New - - 1 1 - 2 - 54 - - 54 56

United Nations Office
at Vienna

Existing - 1 - 1 - 2 2 - 92 - 94 96

New - - - - 1 1 - - 58 - 58 59

United Nations Office
at Nairobi

Existing - - - 1 1 2 - - - 69 69 71

New - 1 - - - 1 - - - 47 47 48

Economic Commission
for Africa

Existing - - 1 - 1 2 - - - 44 44 46
New - - - 1 - 1 - - - 70 70 71

Economic and Social
Commission for Asia
and the Pacific

Existing - - - 1 - 1 - - - 54 54 55

New - - 1 - - 1 - - - 21 21 22

Economic and Social
Commission for
Western Asia

Existing - - - 1 - 1 - - - 34 34 35

New - - 1 - - 1 - - - 19 19 20

Economic Commission
for Latin America and
the Caribbean

Existing - - - 1 - 1 - - - 23 23 24

New - - 1 - - 1 - - - 26 26 27

Total

Existing 1 3 3 7 3 17 6 94 304 224 628 645

New - 1 6 2 2 11 - 54 146 183 383 394

The above table covers security and safety services personnel only and does not
include the proposed 10 new posts (1 D-2, 4 P-4, 1 GS/PL and 3 GS/OL) for the
Division of Safety and Security Services at Headquarters.



14

A/59/539

50. The Committee observes that, with the exception of the United Nations
Office at Geneva, the United Nations Office at Vienna and the Economic
Commission for Africa, the strengthening of safety and security units provides
not only for an increase in security officers but also for the establishment of
new higher-level posts for the heads of such units. As to the proposed D-2 post
for the head of the Division of Security and Safety Services at Headquarters,
the Committee points out that the report of the Secretary-General does not
contain specific justification in support of the proposed additional post, nor
does it explain why the existing D-1 post could not be used to “supervise the
Security and Safety Service in New York and provide policy direction,
operational guidance and overall technical supervision to the Security and
Safety Services in New York and at the other headquarters locations around the
world” (A/59/365, para. 59). The Committee notes that the posts for all of the
chiefs of the various headquarters security services outside New York are
established or are proposed to be established at either the P-5 or P-4 levels.
Moreover, the Committee was informed that the D-1 post in New York has been
vacant since May 2004. Accordingly, the Committee recommends against the
establishment of a D-2 post for the head of the Security and Safety Services at
Headquarters. If it is deemed necessary, detailed supporting justification could
be provided for a reconsideration of the need for this post in the context of the
implementation report called for in paragraph 17 above.

51. The report of the Secretary-General does not provide a comparative
analysis of requirements for safety and security units against industry
standards and workload data; therefore, it is not clear to what extent certain
objective criteria (except for size of the perimeter and office space) were used in
estimating the need for additional staffing and grade levels. Moreover, in the
course of discussing the matter with the representatives of some regional
commissions, the Committee was under the impression that the proposal for
additional security officer posts was driven to a certain extent by increased
requirements for inside-the-perimeter patrolling. That additional requirement
was not adequately explained. The Committee is of the view that the
composition (including grade levels) and assignment pattern of security and
safety services should be reviewed and the results included in the
implementation report.

52. The Committee notes the view of the Secretary-General with regard to a new
profile for the next generation of security officers (see A/59/365, para. 25). The
Committee understands that no specific proposals have been made in connection
with the profile and that, if deemed justified and timely by the Secretary-General,
the necessary measures would be reported in accordance with established
procedures.

Compliance with headquarters minimum operating security standards

53. Information on compliance with headquarters minimum operating security
standards is contained in paragraphs 21 to 25 of the addendum to the report of the
Secretary-General (A/59/365/Add.1 and Add.1/Corr.1). A provision of $10,417,500
is being proposed, largely for the implementation of security-related infrastructure
projects, including the upgrading of fire-detection and fire-suppression systems; the
installation of blast-resistant film at all offices not included in the phase I request;
the strengthening of perimeters; and other detection, emergency and back-up



15

A/59/539

systems. The Committee observes that the measures proposed by the Secretary-
General, which result largely from the findings of completed security assessment
studies, would raise the United Nations level of compliance with headquarters
minimum operating security standards and minimum operating security standards.
The Committee has pointed to delays in the implementation of projects at the United
Nations Office at Geneva (see para. 7 above). The Committee expects that
measures will be taken to expedite the construction work at the United Nations
Office at Geneva.

54. The Committee notes that a provision is made for infrastructure improvement
projects for the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
(UNHCR). Taking into account that the United Nations regular budget
contribution to the administrative expenditures of UNHCR is limited to a
specific provision authorized by the General Assembly under budget section 25
of the programme budget for 2004-2005, the Committee requests that the
Administration verify whether it is appropriate to increase the United Nations
contribution to UNHCR.

55. The Committee notes from paragraph 10 of the addendum to the report
(A/59/365/Add.1) that the full implementation at the United Nations Office at
Vienna of the infrastructure improvement projects of phase I and those additional
measures that are now being proposed would ensure full compliance with
headquarters minimum operating security standards requirements. The Committee
was informed, however, during its videoconference with the United Nations Office
at Vienna, that one of the major security concerns of the Administration is the
operation of the commissary. The Committee trusts that the Administration will
take the necessary measures to mitigate security risks related to access by the
public (including vehicles) to the commissary and report on the results achieved
in the implementation report requested in paragraph 17 above.

Global access control system

56. A provision of $11,173,300 is being proposed by the Secretary-General for a
comprehensive system to control the access of people and vehicles entering United
Nations premises, identify breaches to perimeter integrity and respond to any
eventual threats. The system would include the use of electronic proximity cards
through turnstiles or hydraulic barriers to control the entry of legitimately identified
pedestrians and vehicles; equipment to detect explosive, chemical or biological
materials; cameras, sensors and alarms to detect intrusion into the perimeter; and
closed circuit TV to monitor and respond to an emergency situation. The system
would also provide for the development of a project referred to as global ID
management. The project was initiated to avoid the creation and maintenance of
multiple databases at United Nations duty stations and further enhance system-wide
security by ensuring that all locations are working from the same database when
issuing or denying ID cards. As indicated in paragraph 30 of the addendum to the
report of the Secretary-General (A/59/365/Add.1 and Add.1/Corr.1), the total cost of
implementing a fully integrated global control system at the eight main locations
could be on the order of $85 million over two bienniums. About $70 million of the
total would be attributable to the United Nations regular budget and $15 million
would be chargeable to United Nations funds and programmes at Headquarters, the
other specialized agencies located at the Vienna International Centre, and to the
World Trade Organization with respect to the International Trade Centre in Geneva.



16

A/59/539

57. Given the magnitude of the estimated resource requirements of
$70 million for the United Nations regular budget, the Committee requests that
the Secretary-General submit for consideration by the General Assembly a
detailed blueprint of the global access control system, with the necessary
justification of all costs involved. The Committee is also of the view that, before
the General Assembly considers such a plan, no money should be appropriated
for this purpose. Instead, at this stage, the Secretary-General should be
authorized to enter into commitments in an amount not exceeding $11.2 million
for necessary planning and initial work pending the consideration of the
requested report.

Information and communications technology security and business continuity

58. Paragraphs 39 and 40 of the addendum to the report of the Secretary-General
(A/59/365/Add.1 and Add.1/Corr.1) deal with the need for the development and
implementation of a global operational framework that would address two
objectives — disaster recovery and business continuity — to enable the United
Nations to respond effectively and in a timely manner to emergency situations that
might impair the operations of critical elements of its information and
communications technology (ICT) facilities. According to the Secretary-General,
preliminary work on the project indicates that eventual global requirements,
including peacekeeping operations, could amount to $30 to $35 million. No
resources are currently being requested since a technical study is required to
validate the preliminary work that has already been done. The Secretary-General
intends to submit his recommendation with regard to the project to the General
Assembly at its sixtieth session.

59. The Committee was informed during its deliberations that the United Nations
Logistics Base at Brindisi and the Information Technology Services Division at
Headquarters are currently performing data recovery and business continuity
functions. The Committee therefore expects that the existing capacity, expertise
and experience of the United Nations Logistics Base and the Information
Technology Services Division in data recovery and business continuity will be
fully engaged in order to minimize the cost of the project. The blueprint of the
project to be submitted to the General Assembly at its sixtieth session through
the Committee, should include detailed justification of all costs and an
implementation time frame for the project.

Standby stock of vehicles and equipment

Financial procedures for contingency requirements

60. It is requested that the proposed Directorate of Security be authorized to
establish a standby stock of vehicles and communications and other equipment
sufficient to supply an operations centre, training and additional field security
coordination officers for one year; should the requirements arise to deploy those
resources, the proposed Directorate of Security would be further authorized to
expend the resources necessary to recruit the additional staff and to replenish the
standby reserve of equipment on an “unforeseen and extraordinary basis”
(see A/59/365, para. 43; and A/59/365/Add.1, paras. 163-166).



17

A/59/539

61. The Committee notes the envisaged establishment of a roster of security
specialists to provide for an emergency response force. The Committee understands
that it is intended to establish a system of periodic psychological and physical
exams for security staff; any plan to use retirees should incorporate the new
requirement (see para. 52 above).

62. With regard to equipment, the Committee was informed, upon enquiry, that the
proposal would not entail the establishment of a logistics base where vehicles and
communications and other equipment would be stored before being released to meet
urgent security demands; no extra costs will be involved. Instead, the Secretary-
General’s proposal envisages the establishment of a new financial mechanism that
would ensure the necessary level of resources and sufficiently flexible access to
them, including through acquiring communications and other special equipment in
stock at the United Nations Logistics Base. The Secretary-General proposes that the
General Assembly authorize him, effective 1 January 2005, to enter into
commitments not exceeding $5,000,000 for the security measures in the field to
meet the security contingency requirements, and to further authorize the Secretary-
General to enter into such commitments in excess of $5,000,000 in the year 2005,
with prior concurrence of the Committee.

63. The arrangements for unforeseen and extraordinary expenses for security-
related items were originally approved by the General Assembly in its resolution
36/235, sect. IV. The $300,000 limit to such expenses which was established by that
resolution has been reviewed by the Assembly on a biennial basis and currently
amounts to $500,000 for the biennium 2004-2005, as approved by the Assembly in
its resolution 58/273. The Committee is not convinced that an upward revision
of the magnitude now proposed by the Secretary-General is warranted at this
time. Under the circumstances, the Committee recommends that, as an interim
measure, the upper limit be doubled to $1,000,000, bearing in mind that the
Committee is available throughout the year to consider requests for
commitment authority and that it is possible for it to take swift action on such
requests. This limit could be reviewed when the Secretary-General submits the
implementation report called for in paragraph 17 above.

Title of the unified security management service

64. The Committee points out that the proposed title “Directorate” for the
unified security management service does not conform to the established
organizational nomenclature of the United Nations Secretariat, which
designates the titles “Department”, “Secretariat” or “Office” at the highest
hierarchical level (see A/C.5/32/17, para. 17). It is recalled that, in paragraph 5
of its resolution 32/204 on organizational nomenclature in the Secretariat, the
General Assembly urged intergovernmental bodies to avoid recommendations
giving particular designations to organizational units or their heads which
might not be in conformity with the nomenclature proposed by the Secretary-
General. The General Assembly may wish to take a decision on the proposed
title for the unified security management service in line with its resolution
32/204.



18

A/59/539

Use of surveillance technology

65. The Committee recalls that it had requested that the next report on security
provide information on the use of modern surveillance technology, including the
impact of technological innovation on human resources requirements for security
and their configuration (see A/58/758, para. 34). No such information was provided
in the  report of the Secretary-General.

66. The Committee trusts that the Administration will make full use of
technological achievements that could reduce dependence on human resources.
The capability of applicants for security posts to use modern means of
electronic surveillance technology should also be taken into account during the
recruitment process. For existing staff, appropriate training should be
undertaken to ensure the development of those capabilities.

IV. Conclusion

67. The Committee looks forward to the further refinement of the Secretary-
General’s security plan. It trusts that, should the General Assembly adopt its
recommendations, the plan will evolve into an effective mechanism for
addressing the security needs of the United Nations system in an efficient and
effective manner which reflects an integrated approach for the benefit of all
concerned. The Committee is also mindful of the need to enhance the image of
neutrality referred to in paragraph 2 of the report of the Secretary-General
(A/59/365 and Corr.1). The Committee looks forward to the implementation
report which it has requested and will revert to the matter of achieving
economies in the utilization of resources. The present request of the Secretary-
General for appropriation would be adjusted to take into account the financial
consequences of those recommendations of the Committee that the General
Assembly may wish to adopt.



19

A/59/539

Annex I
Information on general temporary assistance positions

Location D-1 P-5 P-4 P-3 P-2 GS/OL SS LL FS Total

Department of Political Affairs (Headquarters)  -  -  1  -  -  -  -  -  -  1

Office of the United Nations Security
Coordinator (Headquarters)a  1  -  4  1  -  4  -  -  -  10

Viennaa  -  -  -  -  -  -  10  -  -  10

Nairobi  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  36  -  36

Bangkok  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  6  -  6

Beirut  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  6  -  6

Office of the United Nations Special
Coordinator (Middle East)  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  3  -  3

UNAMAb  -  -  -  -  -  -  10c  -  -  10

Office of the Special Representative of the
Secretary-General for West Africa  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  1  -  1

UNMOGIPb  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  2  2  4

UNTSOb  -  -  1d  1d  1c  -  -  9  5c  17

Total  1  -  6  2  1  4  20  63  7  104

a Jointly financed activity the cost of which is shared between the United Nations regular budget and other organizations.
b UNAMA: United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan; UNMOGIP: United Nations Military Observer Group in India

and Pakistan; UNTSO: United Nations Truce Supervision Organization.
c Recruitment procedures started.
d Functions currently executed at Field Service level pending conversion of posts to “Professional category”, as proposed in

A/59/365/Add.1.



A
/59/539

20 Annex II
Status of implementation of projects to strengthen the security of the

United Nations (section 33)

A. Headquartersa

Project

Approved by
resolution

56/286
(June 2002)

Approved by
resolution

58/295
(June 2004)

Total
approved

funding

Funds
committed by

September
2004 Balance Status of implementation

Projects completed (as reported in A/58/756)  540.0  540.0  540.0  - Fully implemented
Improvements to the fire alarm system in the
first, second and third basements

 2 500.0  1 450.0  3 950.0  3 522.3  427.7 Project in progress, expected to be completed by January
2005 with the exception of the installation of detectors and
fan shut down expected to be completed by June 2005

Installation of sensors and air protection devices  1 700.0  -  1 700.0  190.5  1 509.5 Project deferred to capital master plan
Installation of ballistic partitions in the General
Assembly hall and Council Chambers

 1 000.0  -  1 000.0  358.9  641.1 Project being re-assessed

Construction of an off-site non-governmental
organization resource centre and an off-site mail
facility

 2 650.0  -  2 650.0  -  2 650.0 Project deferred to capital master plan

Construction of an interior security control centre  3 448.0  763.5  4 211.5  4 339.7  (128.2) Project in progress, expected to be completed by June 2005
Installation of a complex wide access control and
alarm monitoring system

 9 322.0  -  9 322.0  10 474.5  (1 152.5) Project in progress, expected to be completed by June 2005

Installation of a physical security barrier around
the perimeter

 3 000.0  3 717.3  6 717.3  6 086.4  630.9 Project in progress, expected to be completed by June 2005

Protection of executive floors  800.0  832.9  1 632.9  825.0  807.9 The installation of man-traps, isolation doors and other
security improvements to senior executive floors in the
Secretariat and buildings of the funds and programmes is in
progress and will be completed in June 2005

Installation of six additional physical vehicle
barriers

 300.0  1 428.2  1 728.2  1 509.6  218.6 Project in progress, expected to be completed by June 2005

Overhaul of the perimeter lighting system  400.0  2 529.5  2 929.5  2 802.5  127.0 Project in progress, expected to be completed by June 2005
Installation of secure electric utility vault grates  340.0  1 107.8  1 447.8  1 265.9  181.9 Project in progress, expected to be completed by June 2005
Installation of blast-proof protection film on all
windows

 -  2 500.0  2 500.0  1 545.2  954.8 Installation of blast film on exterior windows completed,
installation of blast film on interior windows expected to be
completed by December 2004

Four portable vehicle barriers  800.0  800.0  -  800.0 Project dependent on the implementation of the perimeter
fence and expected to be completed by December 2005

Total  26 000.0  15 129.2  41 129.2  33 460.5  7 668.7

a Information as provided to Headquarters by constituent offices, in September 2004.



A
/59/53921

B. United Nations Office at Genevab

Project

Approved by
resolution

56/286
(June 2002)

Approved by
resolution

58/295
(June 2004)

Total
approved

funding

Funds committed
by September

2004 Balance Status of implementation

Relocation of mail and pouch shipping and
receiving operations; new door 30 mail
inspection/delivery area

 2 386.6  3 688.4  6 075.0  -  6 075.0 Project design is completed. Construction contractor selection
is expected to be completed by November 2004. Project
completion expected by December 2005

Provision of full perimeter protection,
including improvement of access control at
the Chemin de Fer, Pregny and Place des
Nations gates

 11 463.8  4 755.6  16 219.4  14 362.3  1 857.1 Chemin de Fer gate: completed. Pregny gate: design
completed, number of contracts finalized, with the remaining
expected to be completed by December 2004. Project
completion expected for December 2005. Place des Nations
gate: project on hold pending completion by the Swiss
authorities of the upgrading of the Place des Nations. Project
is expected to be completed by December 2005. Fences:
Project design completed, construction contractor selection

expected to be completed by December 2004, project
completion expected in the fall of 2005

Improvement of the intermediate area
surveillance, including lighting and video
surveillance in underground garage area

 3 175.0  2 844.0  6 019.0  -  6 019.0 Design should be completed by end-October 2004

Creation of a security control centre  2 417.8  -  2 417.8  37.7  2 380.1 Project design completed. Construction contract selection
expected to be completed by November 2004. Project
completion date of April 2005, with the exception of those
components contingent upon the global access project

Installation of air and water intake protection
structures

 -  515.0  515.0  -  515.0 Project interlinked with the global access project. Project
expected to be completed in December 2005 for those
components which are not dependent on the global access
project

Installation of plastic film on windows  -  1 104.0  1 104.0  1 104.0  - Project design completed. Construction contracts are being
finalized and the project is expected to be completed by
January 2005

Upgrading of the public address system for
emergency announcements

 -  3 826.0  3 826.0  -  3 826.0 Project design expected to be completed by end-October 2004
for an expected project completion date of September 2005

Building partitioning for fire protection,
including in the conference area

 -  1 174.0  1 174.0  -  1 174.0 The project was dependent on the recommendations of the fire
audit, which was fully completed in September 2004. The
design phase of the project is expected to commence on
January 2005 for an expected project completion date of
December 2007

Total  19 443.2  17 907.0  37 350.2  15 504.0  21 846.2

b Building permits have been received from local authorities with respect to all projects.



A
/59/539

22 C. United Nations Office at Viennac

Project

Approved by
resolution

56/286
(June 2002)

Approved by
resolution

58/295
(June 2004)

Total
approved

funding

Funds
committed

by September
2004 Balance Status of implementation

Projects completed as reported in
A/58/756

 1 250.0  -  1 250.0  1 250.0  - Fully implemented

Installation of perimeter fence
surveillance and alarm system

 -  700.0  700.0  -  700.0 Review of specific technical options. Expected completion
date: June 2005

Constructional reinforcement of
perimeter gates and posts, including
vehicle crash barriers

 -  1 450.0  1 450.0  -  1 450.0 Vehicle crash barrier identified. Design criteria under
review for the reinforcement of perimeter posts. Expected
completion date: March 2005

Installation of remote closing and
locking devices for building access

 -  165.0  165.0  -  165.0 Design completed. Implementation schedule under review.
Expected completion date: December 2004

Installation of door alarm system and
closed-circuit television upgrades

 -  1 800.0  1 800.0  -  1 800.0 Preliminary design and equipment specifications
completed. Expected completion date: August 2005

Installation of vehicle recognition
system and screening equipment for
vehicle search

 -  336.0  336.0  81.3  254.7 Vehicle recognition systems at gate 2, 3 4 and 5 have been
installed. The installation of screening equipment is
connected to the reinforcement perimeter gates. Full
completion expected: March 2005

Installation of blast-proof film on
windows of the Centre

 -  1 500.0  1 500.0  628.5  871.5 Project in progress, expected to be completed by January
2005

Installation of stationary chemical
monitoring system

 -  100.0  100.0  -  100.0 Specific technical options are under review. Expected
completion date: March 2005

Installation of heating, ventilating and
air conditioning system access control,
protection and alarm system

 -  815.0  815.0  -  815.0 Specific technical options are under review. Expected
completion date: June 2005

Reconstruction and upgrading of the
Security Control Centre

 -  50.0  50.0  -  50.0 Design completed. Expected completion date: December
2004

Total  1 250.0  6 916.0  8 166.0  1 959.8  6 206.2

c Represents the costs on a gross basis to be financed by the Vienna-based organizations under section 29F, Administration, Vienna.



A
/59/53923

D. United Nations Office at Nairobi

Project

Approved by
resolution 56/286

(June 2002)

Approved by
resolution 58/295

(June 2004)

Total
approved

funding

Funds
committed by

September 2004 Balance Status of implementation

Projects completed as reported in
A/58/756

 480.2  -  480.2  480.2  - Fully implemented

Additional improvement of gates and
barriers and reinforcement of
perimeter fence

 40.8  219.4  260.2  75.2  185.0 Project implementation depends on other
projects, but basic work is in progress

Installation of a perimeter alarm
system and fence — phase 3

 -  109.0  109.0  -  109.0 Awaiting quotations from qualified contractors.
Expected completion date: February 2005

Construction of the registration
booth for conference participants in
the visitors pavilion

 -  56.0  56.0  -  56.0 Awaiting LAN connectivity from Information
Technology Service: Expected completion date:
November 2005

Installation of blast-proof protection
film on windows of the entire
complex

 -  533.0  533.0  455.2  77.9 Installation is completed

Earthwork and civil work for
barriers, turnstiles and planter boxes
around entrance to the complex

 -  101.0  101.0  -  101.0 Project implementation depends on the
construction of the new security booths

Relocation and construction of new
security booths

 -  107.0  107.0  -  107.0 Design work in progress. Expected completion
date: June 2005

Relocation of the commissary and
gift shop from the main premises

 -  980.0  980.0  -  980.0 Notification of award sent to architect for the
design phase. Expected completion date:
September 2005

Construction of one-stop shop off
loading bay for all agencies

 -  1 273.0  1 273.0  -  1 273.0 Notification of award sent to architect for the
design phase. Expected completion date:
September 2005

Total  521.0  3 378.4  3 899.4  1 010.6  2 888.9



A
/59/539

24 E. Economic Commission for Africa

Project

Approved by
resolution 56/286

(June 2002)

Approved
by resolution

58/295
(June 2004)

Total approved
funding

Funds
committed by

September 2004 Balance Status of implementation

Projects completed as reported in
A/58/756

 333.5  -  333.5  333.5  - Fully implemented

Installation of blast-proof protection film
on windows at headquarters and the
subregional offices

 -  1 000.0  1 000.0  -  1 000.0 The request for proposal has been completed,
evaluation of proposals is in progress. Project
completion is expected by mid-2005

Construction of an off-site pass,
identification and accreditation centre
premises

 -  170.0  170.0  77.2  92.8 Project is in progress, expected to be completed by
May 2005

Improvements to physical security and
reinforcement of the existing perimeter
wall

 -  150.0  150.0  109.0  41.0 Project is in progress, expected to be completed by
March 2005

Construction of a new perimeter security
wall around the additional land granted by
the host government

 -  300.0  300.0  -  300.0 The design work is near completion, construction is
expected to be implemented in 2005

Upgrading of the closed-circuit television
system at United Nations Conference
Centre and installation of a closed-circuit
television perimeter intrusion detection
system

 -  130.0  130.0  -  130.0 The project has been deferred to the implementation
of phase II security measures as it is closely linked to
the global access control project

Installation of a fire alarm notification
system in office buildings

 -  470.0  470.0  -  470.0 The request for proposal is being finalized,
construction is expected in April 2005 for
completion by December 2005

Total  333.5  2 220.0  2 553.5  519.7  2 033.8



A
/59/53925

F. Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific

Project

Approved by
resolution 56/286

(June 2002)

Approved
by resolution

58/295
(June 2004)

Total approved
funding

Funds
committed by

September 2004 Balance Status of implementation

Projects completed as reported in
A/58/756

 101.6  -  101.6  101.6  - Fully implemented

Installation of blast-proof film on
windows at the ESCAP premises

 -  300.0  300.0  183.8  116.2 Project is in progress, expected to be completed
by October 2004

Installation of four hydraulic in-ground
road blockers at all major entrances and
installation of 20 static bollards to
prevent vehicle ramming at vulnerable
perimeter locations

 -  92.6  92.6  103.2  (10.6) Installation of bollards is completed. The
contractor for the installation of hydraulic in
ground road blockers is being selected with an
expected completion of the project by December
2004

Installation of automatic vehicle bomb
scanning system at the main entrance

 -  125.0  125.0  125.0  - Contractor selection is being finalized, expected
completion of the project is November 2004

Installation of an intruder alarm system
for all fire escape doors and access ways
to the buildings

 -  67.0  67.0  67.0 The project is in its design phase

Upgrading of the closed-circuit television
system, including computerizing the
control centre for improved monitoring
and coverage

 -  190.0  190.0  190.0 The project is deferred to the implementation of
the Phase II security measures as it is closely
linked to the global access control project

Total  101.6  774.6  876.2  513.6  362.6



A
/59/539

26 G. Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean

Project

Approved by
resolution

56/286
(June 2002)

Approved by
resolution

58/295
(June 2004)

Total
approved

funding

Funds
committed

by September
2004 Balance Status of implementation

Projects completed as reported in A/58/756  146.1  146.1  146.1  - Fully implemented

Installation of blast-proof protection film on
windows at the ECLAC premises

 -  110.0  110.0  18.0  92.0 Design work is in progress. Expected completion
date: October 2005

Construction of an off-site pass and
identification centre at the southern entrance
area of the ECLAC complex

 -  100.0  100.0  -  100.0 The project is at a bidding stage, construction
expected to be completed by January 2005

Total  146.1  210.0  356.1  164.1  192.0

Grand totald  47 795.4  46 535.2  94 330.6  53 132.3  41 198.4

d Total of section 33 and construction component of section 29F, Administration, Vienna (gross).



A/59/539

27

Annex III
Allocation of agency field security advisers by duty station
(as at 18 October 2004)

Agencya Duty station

Number of agency field
security advisers

employed
(2-12 months)

UNDP Afghanistan 1

UNDP Iraq (Kuwait) 1

UNDP Iraq (Amman) 1

UNDP Liberia 1

Total UNDP 4

UNHCR Afghanistan 6

UNHCR Angola 2

UNHCR Bosnia and Herzegovina 1

UNHCR Burundi 5

UNHCR Chad 2

UNHCR Colombia 2

UNHCR Congo 3

UNHCR Democratic Republic of the Congo 5

UNHCR Eritrea 1

UNHCR Ethiopia 1

UNHCR Georgia 2

UNHCR Ghana 2

UNHCR Guinea 3

UNHCR Indonesia 2

UNHCR Iran (Islamic Republic of) 1

UNHCR Iraq (Amman) 1

UNHCR Kenya 6

UNHCR Kosovo (Serbia and Montenegro) 1

UNHCR Kuwait 1

UNHCR Liberia 3

UNHCR The former Yugoslav Republic of
Macedonia

1

UNHCR Malaysia 1

UNHCR Nepal 2

UNHCR Pakistan 6

UNHCR Russian Federation 2

UNHCR Rwanda 1

UNHCR Sierra Leone 4

UNHCR Sudan 5



28

A/59/539

Agencya Duty station

Number of agency field
security advisers

employed
(2-12 months)

UNHCR Switzerland 5

UNHCR Tajikistan 1

UNHCR United Republic of Tanzania 4

UNHCR Uganda 1

UNHCR Zambia 1

Total UNHCR 84

UNICEF Afghanistan 2

UNICEF Burundi 1

UNICEF Haiti 2

UNICEF Iraq (Amman) 3

UNICEF Jordan 1

UNICEF Liberia 2

UNICEF Nigeria 1

UNICEF Senegal 1

UNICEF Sudan 6

Total UNICEF 19

WHO Iraq (Amman) 1

WHO Congo 1

WHO Sudan 1

WHO Switzerland 2

WHO India 1

Total WHO 6

WFP Afghanistan 3

WFP Angola 1

WFP Burundi 2

WFP Central African Republic 1

WFP Chad 1

WFP Colombia 1

WFP Democratic Republic of the Congo 1

WFP Egypt 1

WFP Ethiopia 1

WFP Guinea 1

WFP Haiti 1

WFP Indonesia 1

WFP Côte d’Ivoire 1

WFP Jordan 2

WFP Kuwait 1



A/59/539

29

Agencya Duty station

Number of agency field
security advisers

employed
(2-12 months)

WFP Liberia 2

WFP Nepal 1

WFP Operation Lifeline Sudan 2

WFP Israel, West Bank, Gaza 1

WFP Panama 1

WFP Russian Federation 1

WFP Senegal 1

WFP Somalia 1

WFP South Africa 1

WFP Sudan 6

WFP Syrian Arab Republic 1

WFP Thailand 1

WFP Turkey 1

WFP Uganda 2

WFP Yemen 1

WFP Zimbabwe 1

Total WFP 43

OHCHR Colombia 4

Total OHCHR 4

Grand total 160

a UNDP: United Nations Development Programme; UNHCR: Office of the United Nations
High Commissioner for Refugees; UNICEF: United Nations Children’s Fund; WHO: World
Health Organization; WFP: World Food Programme; OHCHR: Office of the United Nations
High Commissioner for Human Rights.



A
/59/539

30 Annex IV
Current and proposed staffing of security and safety services at all main

locations of the Secretariat

Headquarters Geneva Vienna Nairobi Addis Ababa Bangkok Beirut Santiago Total

Functions Current Proposed Current Proposed Current Proposed Current Proposed Current Proposed Current Proposed Current Proposed Current Proposed Current Proposed

Chief, Security and
Safety Service/Section 1   - 1   - 1    -    -    1    1    -    -    1    -    1    -    1 4     4

Deputy Chief, Security
and Safety
Service/Sectiona 1   - 1   - 1    - 1    -    -    1    1    -    1    -    1    - 7     1

Assistant Chief,
Security and Safety
Service/Section 1   -   -   -    - 1 1    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    2     1
Chiefs of Operational
Units 2 3 1 2b    -    -    -    -    1    -    -    -    -    -    -    - 4     5

Support and Security
planning  20   4   7   -    5    -    2    -    2    -    -    -    1    -    -    -    37     4
Personal protection,
investigations  20   7   3   -    6    -    2    4    3    6    -    -    2    3    -    -    36     20

Annex buildings   4   9   7   4    -    -    4    4    1   20    -    -    -    -    2    -    18     37
Surveillance detection
and emergency
response   1   15   2   2    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    3     17

Control Centre  13   8   4   2    4    4    5    5    4    5    3    5    6    5    2    4    41     38

Internal patrols  62   12   10   15   19   21   12    11    9    8   13    4    7    1    9    5    141     77

Pass and ID unit   8   -   1   2    5    1    3    1    3    6    1    1    1    1    1    1    23     13
Explosive detection
(canine patrols)   -   8   -   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -     8
Pedestrian access
control  61   11   14   20   34   22   13    11   12    11   17    5   14    8   14    173     94

Vehicle access control  25   6   21   4    -    -   19    5    6    4    8    3    -    6    -    -    79     28

Fire and hazardous
materials safety control  12   2   6   -   18    9    3    2    2    5    6    -    -    1    1    -    48     19

Threat assessment and
crisis management   1   4   4   2    -    -    3    4    -    4    5    2    3    1    -    1    16     18
Security and Safety
training   3   2   1   3    3    1    3    -    2    1    1    1    -    1    -    1    13     10

Total 235 91 83 56 96c 59 71 48 46 71 55 22 35 20 24 27 645 394

a In Bangkok, Beirut and Santiago, the existing posts at a P-3 level currently utilized to accommodate the Chief of SSS would be used for accommodation of a
Deputy Chief, following establishment of the P-4 posts for the Chief in these locations.

b Including a new temporary post (P-4) to assist the Director in implementation of the phase II measures.
c Including four temporary SS posts not reported in attachment 3 of the memo of 15 October 2004.


