
United Nations A/59/418

 

General Assembly Distr.: General
6 October 2004

Original: English

04-53902 (E)    071004

*0453902*

Fifty-ninth session
Agenda item 112
Pattern of conferences

Pattern of conferences

Reform of the Department for General Assembly and
Conference Management

Report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and
Budgetary Questions

1. The Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions has
considered the reports of the Secretary-General on the pattern of conferences
(A/59/159) and on the reform of the Department for General Assembly and
Conference Management (A/59/172). The Committee also had before it for
information the report of the Office of Internal Oversight Services on the integration
of global management of conference services (A/59/133 and Corr.1). During its
consideration of the reports, the Committee met with representatives of the
Secretary-General, who provided additional information and clarifications.

2. Pursuant to General Assembly resolution 58/250 of 23 December 2003, the
report on the pattern of conferences presents statistical and other information on the
utilization of conference-servicing resources and facilities, documentation and
publication-related matters, translation and interpretation matters and information
technology; and the report on the reform of the Department for General Assembly
and Conference Management focuses on general aspects of the technical secretariat
support and conference services provided by the Department as well as on the three
major projects that it has undertaken over the past year.

3. Issues pertaining to documentation management are discussed in the report on
the reform of the Department for General Assembly and Conference Management
(A/59/172, paras. 18 and 19). As indicated in the report, the Department has adopted
measures to improve, inter alia, the timely issuance of documents for the
deliberations of intergovernmental and expert bodies. These include the
implementation of the slotting system for documentation forecasting and planning.
The Committee exchanged views with managers of the Department on the status of
the implementation of the envisaged electronic documentation management system
(ibid., paras. 24-37). The slotting system was established to enhance predictability



2
A/59/418

of workload, to enable better planning and utilization of the processing capacity of
the Department and to promote more timely issuance of documents through more
accurate programming and monitoring of manuscript submissions by author
departments (ibid., para. 25). The Committee is of the view that, in spite of the
advantages initially foreseen in the implementation of the slotting system,
chronic problems continue, due, at least in part, to “off schedule” submission of
documentation for processing. The Committee’s experience shows that the
system lacks the needed flexibility and has become an obstacle to the timely
issuance of required documents as well as the ability to respond to surge
requirements. The Committee understands that an interdepartmental review
group is being set up to address weaknesses in the system and ways and means
to correct them.

4. The report on the pattern of conferences contains tables with statistical data on
the planned and actual utilization of conferences resources allocated to a core
sample of bodies that met in New York, Geneva, Vienna and Nairobi in 2003,
compiled in accordance with the methodology adopted by the Committee on
Conferences at its 348th meeting, on 18 May 1993 (A/59/159, annex I). An
explanation of the column headings of the tables, including the formula for the
calculation of the “utilization factor”, which explains changes in the methodology
for calculating the factor in 2003, is also contained in the annex.

5. The Advisory Committee notes that according to the formula, the overall
utilization factor for 2003 is higher than in 2002 and 2001, reflecting a general
increase in utilization of conference resources at all duty stations since 2001. The
Committee welcomes this development but remains concerned about the fact
that raw statistics on the utilization of conference resources, without a more
qualitative analysis, are potentially misleading and may obscure the
understanding of actual efficiency gains in the utilization of allocated
conference resources. The Committee believes that, under the results-based
management culture gradually evolving in the Organization, more emphasis
should be placed on the optimal use of allocated conference resources by
measuring results achieved with the use of available resources. As this may not
necessarily coincide with the current formula used to measure the utilization of
conference resources, the Committee urges all the parties concerned to revisit
the methodology for calculating the use of conference resources taking its views
into account.

6. The report on the pattern of conferences also addresses the issue of vacancy
rates in language service posts (A/59/159, paras. 47-49). At Headquarters, several
translation services continue to have high vacancy rates as a result of a large number
of retirements and other staff movements. In Geneva and Vienna the vacancy rates
are lower, although they are expected to increase as a result of retirements falling
between now and the end of 2005, and in Nairobi difficulties remain in filling
translation, editorial and interpretation posts (ibid., para. 47). The Committee was
informed that the problem is more acute in the filling of Arabic language posts. The
Committee is of the view that greater attention should be paid by the
Department to succession planning by identifying potentially successful
applicants in local markets and developing a roster of qualified candidates in
all official languages. The Committee intends to revert to the general issue of
succession planning and vacancies in the context of its review of the



3
A/59/418

documentation submitted by the Secretary-General on human resources
management to the fifty-ninth session of the General Assembly.

7. Major projects undertaken by the Department, as mandated by the General
Assembly (see resolutions 56/242, 57/283 B and 58/250), include the study on
workload standards and performance measurement (see A/59/172, paras. 48-52).
The Committee notes that a task force on workload standards and performance
measurement was established in July 2003 with the participation of United Nations
Headquarters, and the United Nations Offices at Geneva, Vienna and Nairobi. The
task force has reviewed the existing workload standards for conference-servicing
staff and tried to establish the impact of the introduction and utilization of various
new technologies and working methods on the performance of staff in the
conference-servicing area (ibid., para. 48). The Committee notes that in certain
areas of work such as text-processing and distribution, the introduction of
information technology tools has resulted in efficiency gains, reflected in staff
reductions and redeployment, and that the efforts of the Department to
establish total e-flow and e-processing of documentation are still at an early
stage (ibid., paras. 50 and 51). The Committee points out, however, that the
introduction of new information technologies in the Department has not
automatically resulted in increased productivity in important areas of work
such as editing, translation and interpretation, where the nature of the work
may not be readily amenable to automation and the ultimate impact of such
technology is difficult to assess.

8. In this connection, the Advisory Committee notes from the report of the Board
of Auditors on the financial reports and audited financial statements of the United
Nations for the biennium ended 31 December 2003 (A/59/5, vol. I, chap. II,
para. 191) that the Board was informed by the Department that factors affecting the
decline in output and productivity in the Department included the introduction and
spread of e-flow and e-processing, involving the expanded use by translators of
keyboarding and computer-based terminology and reference aids. The Committee
points out that these have actually lowered productivity although they may
eventually enhance the quality and consistency of the final product. Nevertheless,
the Committee is concerned that after a large investment in information
technology (IT) in the Department, measurable gains in productivity and
quality are yet to be realized. The Committee requests that, in its ongoing
reform efforts, the Department continue to develop a coherent and practical
results-oriented IT strategy. In so doing, it should ensure that the needs and
experience of language staff are taken fully into account in the further
development and use of IT in the department.

9. The Advisory Committee notes from the report of the Department that it will
continue the study of workload standards and performance measurement, with a
view to presenting to the General Assembly, at its sixtieth session, a proposal for a
comprehensive methodology for performance measurement and management for a
full-system perspective (A/59/172, para. 65). From its exchange of views with
managers of the Department, the Committee is not convinced that the
Department has made sufficient efforts to raise the performance of individual
staff members by, inter alia, linking its staff training programmes with its
workload standards and performance measurement. The Committee requests
that the Department report on the matter in the context of its report on the
study of workload standards and performance measurement.


