
 United Nations  A/67/782

  
 

General Assembly  Distr.: General 
18 April 2013 
 
Original: English 

 

13-29715 (E)    260413     
*1329715*   

Sixty-seventh session 
Agenda items 128 and 146 

 

Financial reports and audited financial statements, 
and reports of the Board of Auditors 

 

Administrative and budgetary aspects of the financing 
of the United Nations peacekeeping operations 

 
 
 

  Report of the Board of Auditors on the accounts of the 
United Nations peacekeeping operations and report of the 
Secretary-General on the implementation of the 
recommendations of the Board of Auditors concerning 
United Nations peacekeeping operations for the financial 
period ended 30 June 2012 
 
 

  Report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and 
Budgetary Questions 
 
 

 I. Introduction 
 
 

1. The Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions has 
considered the report of the Board of Auditors on the accounts of the United Nations 
peacekeeping operations for the financial period ended 30 June 2012 (A/67/5 
(Vol. II), chap. II), and its observations and recommendations thereon are contained 
in section II below. During its consideration of the report, the Committee met with 
the members of the Audit Operations Committee of the Board of Auditors, who 
provided additional information and clarification. The Committee also discussed the 
Board’s findings with representatives of the Secretary-General in the context of the 
related report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of the 
recommendations of the Board of Auditors (A/67/741). The representatives of the 
Secretary-General provided additional information and clarification, concluding 
with written responses received on 20 March 2013.  



A/67/782  
 

13-29715 2 
 

 II. Report of the Board of Auditors on the accounts of the 
United Nations peacekeeping operations for the financial 
period ended 30 June 2012 
 
 

 A. General observations and recommendations 
 
 

2. The Board of Auditors reviewed the operations and audited the accounts of 
United Nations peacekeeping operations for the period ended 30 June 2012 through 
visits to United Nations Headquarters and to 16 active field missions as well as an 
examination of the accounts of 27 completed missions and the 4 special purpose 
accounts, namely, the Peacekeeping Reserve Fund, the support account for 
peacekeeping operations, the United Nations Logistics Base at Brindisi, Italy, and 
the after-service health insurance programme for peacekeeping operations. 

3. The Board states that the audit was conducted in conformity with article VII of 
the Financial Regulations and Rules of the United Nations, as well as with the 
International Standards on Auditing. It further states that the audit was conducted 
primarily to enable the Board to form an opinion as to whether the financial 
statements fairly presented the financial position of the United Nations 
peacekeeping operations as at 30 June 2012 and the results of operations and cash 
flows for the financial period then ended, in accordance with the United Nations 
system accounting standards. The audit also included a general review of financial 
systems and internal controls and an examination of the accounting records and 
other supporting evidence to the extent that the Board considered necessary to form 
an opinion on the financial statements. 

4. The Advisory Committee commends the Board of Auditors for the 
continued high quality of its report and also welcomes its timely submission, 
which enabled its consideration during the early part of the Committee’s 
session. The Committee considers that the observations and recommendations 
of the Board provide important insights in terms of resource and management 
issues pertaining to peacekeeping operations. In this regard, the Committee 
continues to draw on the Board’s findings to inform its consideration of the 
respective budget proposals of the individual peacekeeping operations and of 
cross-cutting issues. The Committee also commends the timely submission of 
the report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of the 
recommendations of the Board of Auditors. 

5. The Advisory Committee notes that the Board of Auditors recognizes the 
efforts made by the Administration to address the concerns it expressed in previous 
reports and to enhance financial control and management. However, it identified 
some weaknesses, inter alia, in the governance of the global field support strategy; 
the implementation of the International Public Sector Accounting Standards 
(IPSAS); asset management; and procurement. The comments of the Committee on 
specific findings and recommendations of the Board are contained in section II.C 
below. While the Committee remains concerned at the continued deficiencies with 
respect to asset management, as reflected in the report of the Board of Auditors, it 
notes the improvements in this area and expects that this trend will be maintained in 
forthcoming financial periods (see also paras. 12 to 15 below).  

6. In his report on the implementation of the recommendations of the Board of 
Auditors, the Secretary-General notes the specific concerns expressed by the 



 A/67/782
 

3 13-29715 
 

General Assembly in resolution 66/232 B regarding (a) the extent of cancellation of 
prior-period obligations and the continued high level of obligations raised during the 
last month of the financial period; (b) weakness in the oversight of procurement; 
(c) delays in the implementation of all outstanding recommendations of the Board; 
and (d) the root causes of the recurring issues and measures to be taken. In 
paragraphs 8 to 12 of the report, he outlines some measures taken to address those 
concerns. 

7. The Advisory Committee notes that the concerns expressed by the Board in its 
report (A/67/5 (Vol. II), chap. II) pertain to a number of recurrent issues that have 
been raised in its previous reports. Upon enquiry as to accountability for such 
shortcomings, the Committee was informed by the representatives of the Board that 
the root causes of the recurrent issues were: 

 (a) Insufficient coordination among missions and departments. For example, 
because some requisitioning offices did not conduct vendor performance 
evaluations, the Procurement Division was unable to update vendor performance 
information;  

 (b) Insufficient monitoring. For example, while the Department of Field 
Support issued clear instructions requesting missions to check their asset inventories 
before acquisitions, it did not sufficiently monitor mission compliance with the 
instruction (see also para. 13 below); 

 (c) Inadequate accountability. As regards the responsibility for the 
implementation of its recommendations, the Board noted that only the department 
was identified in the Secretary-General’s report. The Board is of the opinion that 
assignment of accountability should be to a specific unit and individual, along with 
specific indicators against which the individual’s performance could be evaluated.  

8. As concerns the issue of accountability mentioned in paragraph 7 (c) above, 
the Board indicated that, except in exceptional circumstances, it did not consider 
that it had a role in identifying individuals who were accountable for specific issues 
or in prescribing, in its recommendations, actions to be taken by the Administration 
against individuals for non-compliance with established regulations. The Advisory 
Committee reiterates its view that ensuring that appropriate action is taken in 
respect of such weaknesses is an integral component of an effective 
accountability framework. The Committee has made specific observations and 
recommendations in its report on accountability (A/67/776) and comments further 
on the issue in its report on cross-cutting issues related to United Nations 
peacekeeping operations (A/67/780). 
 
 

 B. Audit opinion 
 
 

9. In the Board’s opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material 
respects, the financial position of the United Nations peacekeeping operations as at 
30 June 2012 and their financial performance and cash flows for the period then 
ended, in accordance with United Nations system accounting standards. Without 
qualifying its opinion, the Board draws attention to note 14 of the financial 
statements, which discloses, for the first time, the $889 million incurred cost of the 
construction of buildings and structures by the peacekeeping missions, or  
“self-constructed” assets. 



A/67/782  
 

13-29715 4 
 

10. Upon enquiry, the Advisory Committee was informed that the constructed 
assets included buildings and infrastructure assets such as roads, parking areas and 
airfields. The Committee was also informed that the United Nations-African Union 
Mission in Darfur (UNAMID), for example, had incurred some $31.32 million in 
the construction of an office building and $87.40 million in the construction of staff 
accommodation. While those amounts represented the incurred construction cost of 
the assets, the representatives of the Board indicated that the International Public 
Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) required the disclosure of such assets at “fair 
value” in the financial statements. The Committee was informed that, to that end, a 
methodology was being developed by the Department of Field Support to identify 
the fair value of all self-constructed assets in peacekeeping operations. 

11. The Advisory Committee notes the efforts being made by the Secretary-
General to determine the fair value of self-constructed assets. The Committee 
expects that every effort will be made to complete the exercise in time for the 
adoption of IPSAS on 1 July 2013. 
 
 

 C. Main findings and recommendations of the Board of Auditors 
 
 

  Asset management 
 

12. In paragraph 28 of its report, the Board notes improvements in the 
management of property and the accuracy of inventory, in particular the increased 
percentage of non-expendable property verified and the reduced percentage of  
non-expendable property in the “not found yet” category. The Board notes, however, 
the absence of a unified and standard mechanism for the recording of the cost of 
self-constructed buildings, insufficient assurance over the value of non-expendable 
property and expendable property, a high-risk of loss/wastage from unused  
non-expendable property and deficiencies in asset disposal activities at liquidated 
missions. 

13. In table II.3 of the Board’s report a list is provided of never-used  
non-expendable property in 13 missions that had been in stock for more than one 
year as at 30 June 2012, valued at a total of $83.5 million. The Board indicates that 
$9.97 million worth of that non-expendable property was in bad condition or 
pending write-off and disposal, while $13.53 million worth had never been used for 
more than three years, which indicates a high risk of loss or waste. One of the main 
reasons identified by the Board for missions holding never-used assets was that 
neither Headquarters nor the missions had taken full account of assets already in 
stock when making requisitions. In his report on the implementation of the Board’s 
recommendations, the Secretary-General indicates that the level of never-used  
non-expendable property as at 30 June 2012 represented a 39 per cent reduction in 
terms of value from $137 million at the end of the previous financial period to  
$84 million (A/67/741, para. 34). In addition to other measures, he indicates that an 
asset management section would be established at the Global Service Centre to 
oversee and coordinate acquisition planning and inter-mission transfers of  
non-expendable property (see also sect. IV of the Committee’s report on cross-
cutting issues related to United Nations peacekeeping operations (A/67/780)). 

14. While noting the reported improvements in the management of property 
and reliability of asset data in preparation for the implementation of IPSAS, 
the Advisory Committee remains concerned at the deficiencies observed by the 



 A/67/782
 

5 13-29715 
 

Board of Auditors in this area and urges the Secretary-General to intensify his 
efforts in devising measures to address them. 

15. In paragraph 32 of his report on the implementation of the Board’s 
recommendations, the Secretary-General indicates that, based on industry best 
practices and in line with the IPSAS policy framework, the Department of Field 
Support also plans to introduce “A-B-C analysis” to strengthen the management of 
expendable property. Upon enquiry, the Advisory Committee was informed that  
A-B-C analysis was a practice in cycle counting by which items were ranked as A, B 
or C based upon a specific driver, such as transaction frequency, transaction volume 
or value. Items classified as A were counted more frequently than items classified as 
B and items classified as B were counted more frequently than items classified as C. 
It was further indicated that the practice did not entail discontinuation of the 
physical verification of assets, but rather more frequent counting of certain high-
value, high-turnover items. Upon further enquiry as to why this approach was being 
planned for peacekeeping missions only and not throughout the Secretariat, the 
Advisory Committee was informed that, while A-B-C analysis could be used by all 
Secretariat entities, its application required the support of enabling information 
technology support tools, such as the mission-based Galileo inventory management 
system. The Committee welcomes the planned introduction of A-B-C analysis to 
better manage the large and highly complex inventories of expendable property 
in peacekeeping missions. The Committee recommends that the Secretary-
General be requested to report on the results of this initiative in future reports 
on the implementation of the Board’s recommendations. 
 

  Procurement and contract management 
 

16. In paragraphs 70 to 94 of its report, the Board of Auditors notes various 
weaknesses in procurement and contract management, such as lack of clear criteria 
for vendor invitations (para. 78 (a)), insufficient time allowed for the submission of 
bids (para. 78 (c)) and misuse of the “eight-month rule” (para. 82 (a)). In response 
to the observation regarding insufficient time allowed for bids, the Secretary-
General emphasizes, in paragraph 49 of his report, that solicitation timelines in the 
Procurement Manual are only a recommendation and that procurement, in certain 
markets such as sea and air freight, is done on a spot basis. Upon enquiry, the 
Advisory Committee was informed that solicitations issued by the Logistics and 
Transportation Section of the Procurement Division for short-term air charters, 
freight forwarding and movement of contingent-owned equipment necessitated short 
timelines because the bidders would not leave such expensive assets as ships or 
aircraft idle for the time required to complete a normal solicitation. The Committee 
notes the justification for short solicitation timelines and requests that 
appropriate modifications be made to the Procurement Manual to cover such 
cases. 

17. In his report, the Secretary-General mentions the role of the Regional 
Procurement Office in working with requisitioning offices to develop joint 
acquisition plans. Upon enquiry, the Advisory Committee was informed that the 
Procurement Division had established the Regional Procurement Office in Entebbe 
as a pilot project to consolidate requirements of field missions in East and Central 



A/67/782  
 

13-29715 6 
 

Africa1 and the special political missions. The Committee was also informed that 
the services of the Office had recently been expanded to the field missions in West 
Africa.2 The observations and recommendation of the Advisory Committee with 
regard to the Regional Procurement Office are contained in paragraphs 10 to 15 of 
its report on United Nations procurement activities (A/67/801). 
 

  Budget formulation and management 
 

18. In paragraphs 95 to 136 of its report, the Board discusses budget formulation 
and management. In the period under review, the Board continued to review 
missions’ budget formulation processes to determine whether the 2011/12 budget for 
missions had been formulated in a realistic and well-justified manner, taking full 
account of historical trends and foreseeable factors, and whether any improvements 
could be made to the current budget formulation processes. During its review, the 
Board identified deficiencies such as: (a) no consideration of a number of key 
factors in budget formulation, such as non-operational days in setting aviation 
guaranteed fleet costs and the unaccepted factor in contingent-owned equipment 
costs; (b) lack of due consideration of historical trends for certain budget 
assumptions, including budgeted flight hours in aviation costs; and (c) the need for 
improved guidance in certain areas, such as clear criteria for choosing between 
outsourced and in-house construction approaches. Taken together, the Board 
indicates that the above deficiencies in budget formulation and management account 
for a potential overestimation of the 2011/12 budget of some $144.5 million, as 
summarized in table II.4 of its report. 

19. The Advisory Committee notes that the potential overestimation of  
$144.5 million indicated by the Board is drawn almost entirely from the budget 
of the African Union-United Nations Hybrid Operation in Darfur (UNAMID). 
While the Board contends that its findings on UNAMID are indicative of most 
missions, the Committee is of the view that an analysis such as this one would 
have benefited from a broader sample of peacekeeping missions. The Committee 
comments further on budget formulation and management in its report on cross-
cutting issues related to United Nations peacekeeping operations (A/67/780). 

20. With regard to the standard rate of fuel usage (fuel usage per hour), the 
Board’s analysis of 23 aircraft in 2011/12 showed that actual fuel consumption in 
2011/12 varied significantly from the standard fuel consumption rates set by 
Headquarters. According to the Board, these significant variances suggest that 
standard rates do not reflect the specific situation on the ground. The Board also 
found that the impact of such variances (between standard rates and actual 

__________________ 

 1 African Union-United Nations Hybrid Operation in Darfur (UNAMID), United Nations 
Integrated Peacebuilding Office in the Central African Republic (BINUCA), United Nations 
Interim Security Force for Abyei (UNISFA), United Nations Mission in the Central African 
Republic and Chad (MINURCAT), United Nations Mission in South Sudan (UNMISS), United 
Nations Office in Burundi (BNUB), United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUSCO) and United Nations Support Office for the 
African Union Mission in Somalia (UNSOA). 

 2 United Nations Office for West Africa (UNOWA), United Nations Integrated Peacebuilding 
Office in Guinea-Bissau (UNIOGBIS), United Nations Integrated Peacebuilding Office in Sierra 
Leone (UNIPSIL), United Nations Mission in Liberia (UNMIL), United Nations Mission for the 
Referendum in Western Sahara (MINURSO), United Nations Operation in Côte d’Ivoire 
(UNOCI) and United Nations Regional Office for Central Africa (UNOCA). 



 A/67/782
 

7 13-29715 
 

consumption) in some missions may be partially offset by variances in other 
missions, thus reducing their effect on the overall budget of peacekeeping 
operations. For example, in its analysis of 10 missions in 2010/11, the Board had 
identified cases of consumption exceeding budget amounting to 31.2 million litres at 
4 missions, partially offset by cases of consumption below budget amounting to  
22.9 million litres at 6 missions (A/67/5 (Vol. II), chap. II, para. 107). The Board 
therefore recommends that the Administration consider the feasibility of applying 
mission-specific fuel consumption rates, taking into account the historical trends at 
each mission. The Advisory Committee comments on fuel consumption rates in 
paragraph 28 below (see also the Committee’s report on cross-cutting issues related 
to United Nations peacekeeping operations (A/67/780)). 
 

  Unliquidated obligations 
 

21. The comments and observations of the Board of Auditors on unliquidated 
obligations are contained in paragraphs 13 to 16 of its report. The Board’s analysis 
of a sample of three missions, UNAMID, the United Nations Mission in South 
Sudan (UNMISS) and the United Nations Organization Stabilization Mission in the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo (MONUSCO), shows that 42 per cent of the 
unliquidated obligations were created in the last month of the financial period. The 
Board also notes that, during the 2011/12 period, an average of 12.9 per cent of all 
prior-period unliquidated obligations was cancelled. In paragraph 9 of his report on 
the implementation of the Board’s recommendations, however, the Secretary-
General indicates that the raising of obligations at year-end often corresponds to the 
period of time needed to complete complex procurement processes and that costs for 
items such as troop-contributing country reimbursements are intentionally deferred 
until year-end to ensure that final obligations for the budget period are accurate. The 
Advisory Committee notes that for peacekeeping operations as a whole, the level of 
unliquidated obligations as at 30 June 2012 amounted to $1.02 billion, or 13.5 per 
cent of total expenditure, down from $1.15 billion, or 15.2 per cent of expenditure, 
at the end of the preceding period. 

22. While noting the positive trend in the overall level of unliquidated 
obligations, the Advisory Committee reiterates its concern with respect to the 
extent of cancellation of prior-period obligations and the continued high level of 
obligations raised during the last month of the financial period (A/66/719,  
para. 14). The Committee concurs with the Board’s observation that this 
practice may be an indicator of inadequate budget management. In addition, 
the Advisory Committee notes that unliquidated obligations, which are a 
feature of the currently used United Nations system accounting standards, will 
cease with the adoption of IPSAS because expenditure will be recognized in 
accordance with the “delivery principle”. The Committee further notes that 
while disbursements and unliquidated obligations are all recognized as 
expenditure under the United Nations system accounting standards, IPSAS 
applies the more restrictive “delivery principle”, which stipulates the 
recognition of an expense only after the underlying goods and services have 
been delivered. The Committee trusts that the Secretary-General is prepared 
for the impact of this change on the Organization’s financial reporting (see also 
para. 23 below). 
 



A/67/782  
 

13-29715 8 
 

  Implementation of the International Public Sector Accounting Standards 
 

23. In paragraphs 19 to 26 of its report, the Board of Auditors expresses its 
concerns about progress in the implementation of IPSAS. In paragraph 20 of his 
report, the Secretary-General indicates that a field IPSAS implementation 
monitoring team is being launched at the Regional Service Centre at Entebbe to 
monitor the progress of IPSAS activities and provide support to field missions. The 
Advisory Committee comments further on progress in the implementation of IPSAS 
in its report on cross-cutting issues related to United Nations peacekeeping 
operations (A/67/780). 
 

  Implementation of the global field support strategy 
 

24. The Board of Auditors discusses its audit of the implementation of the global 
field support strategy in section C of its report. The Board indicates that, subsequent 
to its recommendation, proactive efforts have been made to strengthen the 
management of the project and that a strategic-level end-state vision, overall 
communication strategy, risk management framework and performance framework 
are all being developed. The Board further indicates that, during the reporting 
period, it continued to assess the implementation of the strategy in terms of five key 
elements: vision, governance, project management, benefits management and cost 
management. Its observations, which lay out in detail the various weaknesses and 
deficiencies, are contained in paragraphs 169 to 227 of the report. The Board 
concludes by expressing the view that these deficiencies, if not properly and quickly 
addressed, will result in further delays or even failure to maximize the envisaged 
benefits of the global field support strategy. The Advisory Committee’s views and 
comments on the implementation of the global field support strategy are reflected in 
its report on cross-cutting issues related to United Nations peacekeeping operations 
(A/67/780). 
 

  Implementation of the recommendations of the Board of Auditors 
 

25. With regard to the implementation of its previous recommendations, the Board 
notes in paragraph 8 of its report that of the 40 recommendations made for 2010/11, 
18 (45 per cent) had been fully implemented and 22 (55 per cent) were partially 
implemented in the period under review. The implementation rate remained at 
nearly the same level as the previous year (2009/10), when 44 per cent of the 
recommendations had been fully implemented and 56 per cent partially 
implemented. In addition, the Board notes that the Administration improved 
monitoring of the implementation of its recommendations and reinforced guidance 
to the missions on issues concerned. Furthermore, the Board notes particular 
improvements in the area of personnel, where most of its recommendations were 
implemented. The Advisory Committee notes the improvements indicated by the 
Board and expects that this trend will be sustained in future periods. 

26. In paragraph 5 of his report on the implementation of the recommendations of 
the Board, the Secretary-General indicates that, for the period 2011/12, of the 47 
recommendations issued by the Board, 9 have been implemented, 2 have not been 
accepted and 36 are in progress. The Advisory Committee notes that no target 
implementation date has been set for six of the recommendations in progress, one of 
which is the recommendation that the Administration take urgent measures to fill 
vacancies in peacekeeping operations. The Secretary-General indicates that the 



 A/67/782
 

9 13-29715 
 

recommendation is of an ongoing nature and the Administration continuously makes 
efforts to bring the vacancy rates down to within the vacancy factors. Thus, no 
target date can be set and it is unclear when the recommendation will be considered 
by the Board as having been implemented. However, the Secretary-General 
indicates in paragraph 6 of his report that discussions with the Board will continue, 
with a view to agreeing on the specific measures that need to be taken to ensure full 
implementation. The Advisory Committee encourages the ongoing dialogue 
between the Board and the Administration to facilitate the establishment of 
target dates for the implementation of the recommendations in progress. 

27. As indicated in the preceding paragraph, two recommendations issued by the 
Board following the 2011/12 audit were not accepted by the Secretary-General. 
With regard to the recommendation that non-operational days be given due 
consideration in estimating aviation costs (A/67/5 (Vol. II), chap. II, para. 105), the 
Secretary-General indicates that aircraft non-deployment or non-availability due to 
factors such as extended maintenance periods and crew sickness could not be 
predicted and there was no consistent level across missions to form a basis for a 
useful estimate (A/67/741, para. 64). 

28. With regard to the recommendation that the Administration consider the 
feasibility of applying mission-specific fuel consumption rates, taking into account 
the historical trends at each mission (A/67/5 (Vol. II), chap. II, para. 111), the 
Secretary-General explains that the current use of standard rates of aircraft fuel 
consumption in the calculation of aviation fuel budgets is best suited to capture the 
complexity of United Nations air operations. He further indicates that the 
Department of Field Support considers the methodology of using standard average 
rates to be the most appropriate, as it takes into consideration the vast experience 
gained by the United Nations around the globe in operating the types and models of 
aircraft in its current fleet (A/67/741, para. 66). The Advisory Committee 
recognizes the usefulness of standard rates in the budget process. The 
Committee expects that every effort will be made to regularly review the fuel 
standards in order to ensure that all relevant factors and historical trends that 
have an impact on the standards are reflected therein (see also the Committee’s 
report on cross-cutting issues related to United Nations peacekeeping 
operations (A/67/780)). 
 

  Official travel 
 

29. In paragraph 156 of its report, the Board notes the efforts made to increase the 
use of video and teleconferencing services, but also notes that there is no formal 
travel policy to encourage staff in the use of these technologies as low-cost 
alternatives to travel. The Board also notes that for most missions, the potential for 
videoconferencing is not formally taken into consideration before the authorization 
of travel requests. In paragraph 90 of his report on the implementation of the 
Board’s recommendations, the Secretary-General indicates that he had 
recommended inclusion in the revised administrative instruction on official travel a 
provision that required programme managers to certify that due consideration had 
been given to achieving the purpose of the particular travel through alternative 
methods, such as video and teleconferencing, or webcasting, before approving any 
official travel (A/66/676, para. 11). He further indicates that the recommendation is 
under consideration by the General Assembly. 



A/67/782  
 

13-29715 10 
 

30. Upon enquiry, the Advisory Committee was informed that while every effort 
was being made to minimize official travel and rely on more cost-effective video 
and teleconferencing services, travel continued to be an operational requirement 
without which the Department of Peacekeeping Operations and the Department of 
Field Support could not fulfil their mandates to support peacekeeping operations. 

31. The Advisory Committee notes the increased reliance on more cost-
effective alternatives in order to reduce requirements for official travel. While 
the Committee recognizes the continued necessity of travel in the delivery of the 
Organization’s peacekeeping mandate, it remains of the view that requirements 
in this area should continue to be kept under close review and that maximum 
use should be made of advances in information and communications technology 
and other methods of representation to reduce the need for travel (see also the 
report of the Committee on cross-cutting issues related to United Nations 
peacekeeping operations (A/67/780)). 

 


