
United Nations DP/2005/4

 

Executive Board of the
United Nations Development
Programme and of the
United Nations Population Fund

Distr.: General
23 December 2004

Original: English

04-66436 (E)    281204

*0466436*

First regular session 2005
20 to 28 January, New York
Item 2 of the provisional agenda
Financial, budgetary and administrative matters

Revision of UNDP financial regulations*

Report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and
Budgetary Questions

1. The Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions
has considered the report of the Administrator of the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) on the proposed revisions to the financial
regulations (DP/2005/3). During its consideration of the matter, the Committee
met with representatives of the Administrator.

2. As indicated in paragraph 3 of document DP/2005/3, the purpose of this
comprehensive revision of the UNDP financial regulations is to realign them
with the new operational processes resulting from the implementation of
United Nations Development Group simplification and harmonization
initiatives. The revision of the regulations also reflects Executive Board
decisions that have affected them since the last comprehensive revision in
2000.

3. The Advisory Committee notes that extensive consultations were
conducted throughout UNDP, both at headquarters and in the country offices,
as well as with UNFPA, with the purpose of harmonizing its proposed
revisions with those proposed by UNFPA (see DP/FPA/2005/3). The report of
the Committee on the proposed revisions to the UNFPA financial regulation is
contained in document DP/FPA/2005/4.

4. The Committee further notes that, as in the case of UNFPA, the United
Nations Office of Legal Affairs (UNOLA) reviewed and commented on the
proposed revisions of the financial regulations and its comments have been

_________

*The collection of data required to provide the Executive Board with the most current
information has delayed submission of the present document.



DP/2005/4

2

incorporated in the proposed text. The Committee welcomes the presentation
of the report of the Administrator. Proposed revisions are clearly identified
and explained.

5. Paragraph 5 of document DP/2005/3 indicates that the proposed revisions
to the UNDP financial regulations include both substantive and editorial
changes, as well as certain changes in terminology. Proposed substantive
changes are grouped into four categories, as follows:

(a) Programming modalities;
(b) Authority to commit resources against future receipts of

contricontributions;
(c) Separation of duties; and
(d) Previous decisions of the Executive Board.

6. Changes under programming modalities are discussed in paragraphs
6 to 9 of the report of the Administrator. The Committee notes that
harmonized programming procedures are now being introduced in countries
where United Nations organizations are starting new harmonized programme
cycles. The introduction of the country programme action plan will be phased
in over several years and is expected to be completed by 2008.

7. In the interim, UNDP proposes to reflect in the revised financial
regulation both the ‘old’ and the ‘new’ regime, as advised by UNOLA.
Consequently, proposed changes in the revised regulation 27.01 include a new
definition for the term “executing agency” and new definitions for the terms
“implementing entity” and “implementing partner.” Similarly, the definitions
of “execution” and “implementation” would be changed in the proposed
revised regulation 27.02. Other pertinent changes are proposed to regulations
16 to 18 to take into account both regimes.

8. Commitment of resources against future receipt of contributions is
addressed in paragraphs 10 to 13 of document DP/2005/3. The Advisory
Committee notes from paragraph 11 of the report that the nature of projects
and programmes funded from ‘other resources’ has become more complex. It
has become the practice of many donors to pay contributions to ‘other
resources’ in instalments rather than fully in advance when project and
programme activities span several years.

9. In this connection, the Committee was informed that some donors,
notably the European Union, have instituted a withholding of final payments
until satisfactory completion of the project. The Committee understands that
this procedure was accepted by the United Nations Secretariat on behalf of the
United Nations system in the framework agreement signed with the European
Union in 2003.

10. The Committee was further informed that, in the cases mentioned above,
UNDP is placed in the position where it cannot effectively manage projects
that require contractual commitments extending beyond the payment
instalment periods, without contravening the current financial regulation 5.07.
This regulation requires that before UNDP allocates funds for the
implementation of a programme activity funded from ‘other resources’, it
should have received 100 per cent of the pledged contribution for the activity.



3
DP/2005/4

11. Under the circumstances, the Administrator proposes amending
regulation 5.07 (b) to allow in certain instances for commitments to be made
against contributions to be paid in future instalments. The Committee was
informed that internal guidelines are being prepared to minimize UNDP’s risk
in this area. To mitigate risk further, commitments would only be authorized
against established and approved receivables and would be monitored and
controlled using the Atlas system.

12. Current financial regulation 20.02 requires full separation of duties
among UNDP staff authorized to incur obligations, verify payments and
disburse resources on behalf of UNDP. The Advisory Committee was
informed that in a limited number of cases, because of emergency situations or
due to temporarily insufficient staffing levels, full separation of duties was not
always possible.  An amendment is therefore proposed to regulation 20.02 that
would allow the Administrator to grant exceptions to this regulation in the
interests of UNDP.

13. Paragraphs 15 to 17 of the report of the Administrator discuss the
proposed revisions to the financial regulations required to align them with
previous Executive Board decisions that have affected them since their last
comprehensive revision in 2000. The Advisory Committee notes that the
revisions in this category include, notably, those related to current regulations
on support costs and reimbursable ‘target for resource assignment from the
core’ (TRAC), reflecting past decisions of the Executive Board (98/19 and
99/2, respectively).

14. Proposed terminology and editorial changes are explained in paragraphs
19 to 29 of the report of the Administrator.

15. The Advisory Committee emphasizes the need for UNDP financial
regulations to promote transparency and accountability. The Committee has
been assured that the proposed changes to the regulations would improve
clarity, and, where necessary, reflect simplified and harmonized terminology
for programme planning, in response to General Assembly resolution 56/201.

16. Accordingly, the Advisory Committee recommends that the Executive
Board approve the revisions to the existing regulations, as contained in the
report of the Administrator (DP/2005/3).

___________


