
03-36673 (E)    230503
*0336673*

United Nations DP/FPA/2003/10

Annual session 2003
6 to 20 June 2003, New York
Item 13 of the provisional agenda
UNFPA

UNITED NATIONS POPULATION FUND

DELEGATION OF FORMAL AUTHORITY TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
ON UNFPA PERSONNEL MATTERS

Report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions

1. The Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions has considered the report
of the Executive Director on the delegation of formal authority to the Executive Director in matters
concerning UNFPA personnel (DP/FPA/2003/5).  During its consideration of the report, the Advisory
Committee met with the Deputy Executive Director and her colleagues, who provided additional
information.

2. As indicated in paragraph 2 of the report, formal authority concerning UNFPA personnel
currently resides with the Administrator of UNDP, as it has since 1969 when the Secretary-General
placed UNFPA under the authority of the Administrator.  In 1972, the General Assembly placed UNFPA
under its authority (resolution 3019 (XXVII)); however, administratively, UNDP continued to represent
UNFPA in the field, administer UNFPA staff and provide financial services to UNFPA.

3. The Committee notes from paragraphs 5 and 6 of the report that the request of UNFPA for formal
authority in matters concerning UNFPA personnel has been endorsed by UNDP and that the delegation of
such authority to the Executive Director would improve the management, efficiency and accountability of
UNFPA personnel services, and remedy the anomaly noted by internal auditors that while the Executive
Director has substantive authority over UNFPA personnel, she does not have the formal authority to
appoint, administer or discipline UNFPA staff.

Executive Board of the
United Nations Development
Programme and of the
United Nations Population Fund

Distr.:  General
20 May 2003

Original:  English



DP/FPA/2003/10

2

4. As indicated in paragraph 7 of the report, the delegation of personnel authority to the Executive
Director of UNFPA “would not have any direct financial implications or added costs”.  The Advisory
Committee was provided, upon request, with the additional information on the financial and
administrative implications of the delegation of such authority, which is annexed herein.  The Advisory
Committee notes that the figures provided are provisional and urges a speedy conclusion of the ongoing
discussions between UNDP and UNFPA.

5. The Advisory Committee recommends approval of the recommendation contained in paragraph
11 of the report concerning the delegation of formal authority to the Executive Director in matters of
UNFPA personnel.



DP/FPA/2003/10

3

Annex

I. Biennial costs related to the delegation of personnel authority to UNFPA

Savings – $151,100

Subvention to UNDP for personnel legal services reduced from $218,600 to $100,000

Subvention to UNDP for the formulation of personnel policies reduced from $37,500 to $5,000*

Anticipated savings

Savings on the costs UNDP levies on UNFPA country offices for personnel-related services
provided by UNDP (on a fee-per-service basis).  This will mean that UNFPA country offices will
no longer have to pay for personnel services that it is currently obliged to pay for, but which are,
in reality, being performed by the UNFPA country offices themselves.  These will include, for
example, issuing their own letters of appointment and other contracts, holding their own
appointment and promotion panels and maintaining their own human resources databases.

II. Anticipated savings related to the streamlining of processes

The speedier processing of disciplinary cases (currently eight cases are pending) through
dedicated support for this function will reduce costs to UNFPA.  This will reduce excessive time
lags and the attendant costs in the legal pursuit of disciplinary cases, which, in two recent cases,
have taken more than eight months in one instance, and four years in another.

* * * * * *

                                                
* The amount given is an estimate based on preliminary negotiations with UNDP.


