
04-64642 (E)    281204

*0464642*

United Nations   DP/FPA/2005/4

First regular session 2005
20 – 28 January 2005, New York
Item 11 of the provisional agenda
Financial, budgetary and administrative matters

UNITED NATIONS POPULATION FUND

REVISION OF UNFPA FINANCIAL REGULATIONS
AND

RECOVERY OF INDIRECT COSTS FOR CO-FINANCING

Report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions

1. The Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions (ACABQ) has
considered the reports of the Executive Director of the United Nations Population Fund on the
revision of UNFPA financial regulations (DP/FPA/2005/3) and the recovery of indirect costs for
co-financing (DP/FPA/2005/5).  During its consideration of the reports, the ACABQ met with
the Deputy Executive Director (Management) and her colleagues, who provided additional
information.

Revision of UNFPA financial regulations (DP/FPA/2005/3)

2. As indicated in the first paragraph of the report of the Executive Director, revisions to the
existing regulations as well as proposed new regulations are proposed for the approval of the
Executive Board.  The Committee welcomes the presentation, which facilitates identification of
the revisions and additions to the text.  The Committee was provided as well with a matrix of all
proposed changes outlining new or revised text, with justification for the changes.

3. The Committee notes that most of the revisions result from the introduction of the
PeopleSoft financial system (Atlas) in January 2004, and reflect the introduction of the multi-
year funding framework (MYFF) in 1999, which replaced the previous work plan.  The revisions
also reflect United Nations simplification and harmonization initiatives. As indicated in
paragraph 2, the revisions were approved by the Office of Legal Affairs of the United Nations.

Executive Board of the
United Nations Development
Programme and of the
United Nations Population Fund

Distr.:  General
14 December 2004

Original:  English



DP/FPA/2005/4

2

4. The Atlas-induced changes include the replacement of the former “certifying” function
by the “committing” function, which establishes the approval to spend against a budget source;
the replacement of the former “approving” function by the “verifying” function, which ensures
proper controls are in place before disbursing the funds; and the replacement of the “allocation”
concept by the “budget” concept, which is used to enable and control expenditures, as
summarized in paragraphs 3-5 of the report of the Executive Director.

5. Previous terminology referring to the work plan in the regulations is replaced by
“MYFF”, in view of the introduction of the multi-year funding framework mentioned above.
Moreover, now that formal authority has been delegated to UNFPA on managerial oversight and
financial and personnel services, references to the UNDP Administrator have been removed in
the text.  The Committee further notes that under the current regulations, all entities spending
money in support of UNFPA activities are defined as “executing agencies”.  However, under the
United Nations Development Assistance Framework and the country programme action plan, the
host government and/or UNFPA is now the “executing agency” and the old concept of executing
agency or individual partner organization implementing the activity is therefore replaced by
“implementing partner” (paragraphs 6-7 of the report).  The Committee also notes that in an
effort to further harmonize and simplify, UNFPA indirect costs, currently segregated into
administrative and operational support costs (AOS) and managerial and support service costs
(MSS), will now be labelled “indirect costs” in the regulations.

6. UNFPA is also expanding the definition of “fully funded” contributions in the regulations
in order to allow implementation of a project or activity based on cash received or, if needed, a
written pledge or signed agreement (paragraph 8 of the report).  This will allow UNFPA to
programme expenditures up to the 100 per cent level in well-defined cases in which the
expectation is to receive 90 per cent cash prior to project completion.  The Committee was
assured that internal guidelines would be issued to minimize risk.

7.  The Advisory Committee recommends that the Executive Board approve the revisions to
existing regulations and the new regulations proposed, as contained in the report of the Executive
Director (DP/FPA/2005/3).

Recovery of indirect costs for co-financing (DP/FPA/2005/5)

8. UNFPA provides managerial and substantive support to activities financed from co-
financing resources, which entail additional managerial and administrative support from
UNFPA, regardless of the executing/implementing agency. The Advisory Committee recalls that
the issue of cost recovery policy of indirect costs was discussed in 1998 and 2000, and that the
Executive Board approved the current rate structure in its decisions 98/22 and 2000/6.

9. The current policy for recovery of indirect costs is as follows:

(a)  Trust fund contributions, regardless of implementing partner, are levied a 5 per cent
recovery for MSS;



DP/FPA/2005/4

3

(b) Cost sharing contributions implemented by UNFPA are subject to a 5 per cent recovery
of AOS costs;
(c) Trust fund contributions implemented by UNFPA are subject to an AOS of 7.5 per cent;
(d) Government execution is subject to an AOS of 5 per cent payable to UNFPA for support;
(e) Partner organizations implementing UNFPA activities can cover their indirect costs up to
12 per cent in the case of non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and up to 7.5 per cent in
the case of United Nations agencies.

10. The Committee notes that the basis for the review includes the recommendation of the
Joint Inspection Unit (JIU) for all organizations of the United Nations system to review their
indirect cost rates in order to harmonize whenever possible (see paragraphs 12-14); the
recommendation of the Advisory Committee for a review of the UNFPA cost-recovery
methodologies to ensure that no “subsidization” takes place between core and co-financing
funds; and the fact that, as part of the simplification and harmonization initiatives under way in
the United Nations system, other agencies have reviewed and obtained approval to revise their
cost-recovery policies. The Committee was further informed that both donors and country office
staff have advised that the system is complicated and difficult to understand, and that as a result
of this complexity, donors sometimes request waivers which, when granted, make it difficult to
argue that there is no subsidization of restricted contributions by core funds – thus the proposal
to simplify the calculation, as indicated in paragraph 8 of the report of the Executive Director.

11. The methodology for arriving at the formulation of the policy on recovery of indirect
costs is based on a model suggested by the JIU and used by some other agencies to estimate
actual indirect costs as a percentage of expenditures from co-financing (see paragraphs 15-16 of
the report of the Executive Director).   The Committee notes that, as a first step, the level of fixed
indirect costs, which do not increase with the volume of co-financing activity, was determined
within the biennial support budget. Variable costs, which are what remains after fixed indirect
costs are deducted, were then apportioned based on the respective sizes of contributions in the
areas of co-financing, regular resources and procurement services. Part II of the annex to the
report of the Executive Director provides the UNFPA structure of fixed and variable costs.
Using that model, and based on the calculation of actual recovery rates for the last two
bienniums (8.1 per cent for 2000-2001, and 6.5 per cent for 2002-2003), the Executive Director
is therefore proposing a unified rate of 7 per cent to be charged on all co-financed activities.
Moreover, the Executive Director is of the opinion that the goal of no cross subsidization of co-
financing can be attained through the application of a single rate.

12. The Committee notes that in reviewing the cost-recovery rates, UNFPA also reviewed the
rates for the reimbursement of costs related to third party procurement services, currently
calculated at 5 per cent of the value of the goods procured, and confirmed its appropriateness.
The Executive Director is thus proposing to maintain it. The rates determining the level of
reimbursement for indirect costs that implementing partners may charge, of up to 12 per cent for
NGOs and 7.5 per cent for United Nations agencies, are also proposed to be retained.



DP/FPA/2005/4

4

13. Based on the above, the Committee agrees that the rate of 7 per cent, proposed to be the
one rate to be used to recover indirect costs for co-financed activities, is reasonable.  The
Committee also agrees that the Executive Director should be allowed to keep the indirect cost-
recovery rate under review and make proposals for amendments to avoid cross-subsidization, if
necessary.

_______________


