
 United Nations  E/CN.7/2005/9

 

Economic and Social Council  Distr.: General 
2 March 2005 
 
Original: English 

 

 
V.05-81573 (E)    040305    070305 

*0581573* 

Commission on Narcotic Drugs 
Forty-eighth session 
Vienna, 7-14 March 2005 
Item 10 of the provisional agenda* 
Administrative and budgetary questions 

   

   
 
 

  United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime: consolidated 
budget outline for 2006-2007 
 
 

  Report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and 
Budgetary Questions** 
 
 

1. The Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions has 
considered the report of the Executive Director on the consolidated budget outline 
for 2006-2007 for the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) 
(E/CN.7/2005/8). The report outlines separate budgets for the UNODC drug and 
crime programmes, with a comprehensive overview of planned activities and the 
related resources required for their implementation. The Committee considered the 
report and exchanged views with the Executive Director and other senior officials. 
Also, in response to queries by the Committee, UNODC subsequently provided 
additional information. 

2. The report of the Executive Director contains the proposals for: (a) the crime 
programme, with a $52.2 million (275 per cent) increase from 2004-2005 to 2006-
2007 and a proposed new budget of $71.2 million; and (b) the drug programme, 
with an increase of $7.3 million (4 per cent), from $205.9 million to $213.2 million. 
The proposed budget outline includes research, normative and technical assistance 
activities, as well as regional activities and support activities. The Committee noted 
the use of the designation “Normative: Headquarters” as a separate line item in 
table 1 and, as indicated in paragraph 6, this refers to the pillar’s task in assisting 
countries with expertise in establishing legislative frameworks in the areas of drugs 
and crime control. 

__________________ 

 * E/CN.7/2005/1. 
 ** The Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions met on 18 February 2005 

and its report was submitted to the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime on 2 March 2005. 



 
2  
 

E/CN.7/2005/9  

3. The Advisory Committee commends the Executive Director for the report’s 
overall quality, format and clarity. The brevity and conciseness is appreciated and 
the Committee trusts that this indicates a trend to further reduce the length of future 
reports.  

4. Table 1 of the consolidated budget outline presents a comprehensive summary 
view of UNODC’s proposed budget outline, while table 2 provides a more detailed 
thematic explanation. UNODC informed the Advisory Committee that anticipated 
resources as presented in both tables were a result of: (a) current and anticipated 
commitments; and (b) expected future activities. The determination of financial 
resources required for current and anticipated commitments was based primarily on 
the cost of ongoing projects to continue during the biennium 2006-2007, as well as 
new projects to be initiated during the same time frame. UNODC further informed 
the Committee that the determination of financial resources required for expected 
future activities was compiled using the best available information. Factors in that 
respect included negotiation with donors and an examination of the donor portfolio 
resulting in a weighted cost prediction. The latter was, however, not considered final 
and a more precise cost estimate would be included in UNODC’s proposed budget 
presentation. The Advisory Committee expects that UNODC will proactively 
communicate with donors to ascertain the status of donor pledges so as to 
obtain more accurate information on support expected for subsequent inclusion 
in the forthcoming proposed budget. 

5. The Committee points to an increase in required resources for headquarters 
support activities, as shown in table 2, with a 27 per cent increase in headquarters 
drug programme activities and a 57 per cent increase in headquarters crime 
programme activities. The Committee also draws attention to paragraph 20 of the 
budget outline and the ratio between programme and support costs, which would 
change only marginally, from 79:21 during 2004-2005 to 78:22 during 2006-2007, 
although support costs had increased in absolute terms. UNODC informed the 
Committee that staffing levels at headquarters remained unchanged and no new 
posts had been requested. The increase in required resources was a result of dual 
external factors unrelated to UNODC’s resource management, namely, a 
combination of an adjustment in staff salary scales and foreign currency volatility. 
The Office expressed hope that voluntary contributions could augment increased 
headquarters resource requirements; however, there had been an overall decrease in 
such contributions. The Advisory Committee emphasizes the need to monitor the 
ratio between the programme and support components to ensure that support 
costs are not increased at the detriment of expenditure on programmes.  

6. The Advisory Committee observes that some areas of expertise are not unique 
to UNODC and that there is an apparent duplication of efforts, with considerable 
potential cost implications, with other United Nations departments, funds and/or 
programmes. The Committee specifically notes that activities in the areas of rule of 
law and HIV/AIDS are also on the agenda of a number of other partners, but still 
require substantial UNODC financial resources. For instance, table 4 indicates a 59 
per cent increase in HIV/AIDS-related programme requirements. UNODC clarified 
that the Office was one of 10 organizations co-sponsoring the Joint United Nations 
HIV/AIDS Programme (UNAIDS) and currently held the chairmanship of the 
Committee of Co-sponsoring Organizations. Specifically on the question of rule of 
law, the Office indicated that, while there was a need to consolidate work done 



 
 3 
 

 E/CN.7/2005/9

within the United Nations system, each office approached rule-of-law matters from 
a different angle. For example, whereas the Department of Peacekeeping Operations 
placed emphasis on the rule of law as it related to peace operations and one of the 
focuses of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) was on providing 
assistance to Governments in establishing rule-of-law structures in the context of 
governance, UNODC focused on building capacity in criminal justice. Nonetheless, 
the Advisory Committee requests that UNODC examine which of its 
programme activities may be duplicative of programmes carried out by other 
United Nations entities and introduce effective communication and liaison 
measures to ensure information transparency and to minimize competition 
among agencies for funding various activities. The Committee intends to revert 
to this matter when it considers the UNODC budget. 

7. The Committee notes that the consolidated budget outline (E/CN.7/2005/8) 
does not elaborate on information exchange and general interaction between the 
drug and crime programmes, both of which operate jointly under the UNODC 
umbrella. The Committee trusts that close coordination between both 
programmes is a routine matter and requests that UNODC provide background 
and specific examples on how coordination is organized in practice. 

8. The Committee questioned the decrease of 20 per cent in drug programme 
costs for Latin America and the Caribbean (see E/CN.7/2005/8, table 1). The Office 
responded that, while there was a reduction in absolute terms, the goal was to 
collaborate with the affected countries and to augment country resources with 
programmes provided by UNODC. The Advisory Committee notes that technical 
assistance remains an important aspect of capacity-building and emphasizes 
the need for careful monitoring of changing geographical needs to ensure that 
realistic resource requirements are included in the budget. 

9. The Committee requests clarification on a new working arrangement where 
UNODC would utilize the UNDP activity-based universal price list (UPL) for the 
reimbursement of field services, as described in paragraph 56. The arrangement 
resulted from negotiations initiated with UNDP, which provides administrative 
support to UNODC at the field level, following the Executive Director’s report of 
17 September 2003 (E/CN.7/2003/20, para. 308). UNDP intends to charge a 3 per 
cent management fee for all transactions reported via a dedicated UNDP reporting 
system (Atlas). However, the system is not fully operational and no reports on 
accrued fees for services already provided have been presented to UNODC since the 
agreement became operational in 2004. UNODC explained that, once the price list 
was finalized during the year 2005, a more exact estimate would be included in the 
proposed budget. In the meantime, UNODC estimated that related expenditures 
would amount to $1.6 million during 2006-2007. While commending UNODC for 
formalizing a working arrangement with UNDP, the Advisory Committee 
expresses concern that the Office has entered into an agreement with UNDP 
without first assessing its operational and financial impact. The Committee 
expects that the forthcoming budget proposal will include a well-founded 
operational and financial justification clarifying the benefits of utilizing UPL, 
in particular in view of the 3 per cent management fee levied by UNDP. 

 


