
United Nations E/ICEF/2002/AB/L.6

 

Economic and Social Council Distr.: Limited
30 May 2002

Original: English

For information

02-40495 (E)    260602

*0240495*

United Nations Children’s Fund
Executive Board
Second regular session 2002
16-20 September 2002
Item 6 of the provisional agenda*

Cash assistance to Government in the context of UNICEF
programme cooperation modalities

Report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and
Budgetary Questions**

1. The Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions has
considered the report of the Executive Director of UNICEF relating to cash
assistance to Government (CAG) in the context of UNICEF programme cooperation
modalities (E/ICEF/2002/AB/L.5). During its consideration of the report,
representatives of the Executive Director provided additional information.

2. This report is submitted pursuant to the decision of the Executive Board of
UNICEF at its first regular session in 2001 to revert to the issue of CAG on the basis
of a report on its current practice and financial regulations and rules
(E/ICEF/2001/6/Rev.1, decision 2001/6).

3. As indicated in paragraph 39 of the document, UNICEF may provide financial
assistance to Governments either through disbursement to national authorities or to
civil society organizations in support of the implementation of programme activities
or through reimbursement of incurred expenditure. In some cases, UNICEF makes
direct payments to the vendors on behalf of the Government.

4. The Advisory Committee notes from paragraph 43 of the document that
UNICEF accounts for the cash assistance as programme expenditure at the time of
disbursement of funds to the Government. The Advisory Committee also notes from
the paragraph 47 of the document that the UNICEF financial regulations have been
amended to reflect the revised definition of programme expenditure, which may
include cash assistance.

__________________

* E/ICEF/2002/11.
** The document was submitted late to the conference services without the explanation required

under paragraph 8 of General Assembly resolution 53/208 B, by which the Assembly decided
that, if a report is submitted late, the reason should be included in a footnote to the document.



2
E/ICEF/2002/AB/L.6

5. The reasons for recording cash assistance to the Government as an expenditure
at the time of transfer of the funds are indicated in paragraph 46 of the document.
These include the need to avoid a delay in the accounting of the resource transfer to
some time in the future while the provision of input to the programme of
cooperation has already been made. It is also indicated that “at that time in the
future, the budgetary authority approved by the Executive Board as well as donors
for the period could have expired”. The Advisory Committee points out that there
are pragmatic solutions to the issue of budgetary authority (see, for example,
document A/43/674, paras. 9-11 and 31.) In the opinion of the Advisory Committee,
it is not appropriate to use the issue of budgetary authority as a rationale for the
administration’s position on ownership of funds.

6. In paragraph 9 of its report A/54/441 of 6 October 1999, as endorsed by the
General Assembly in its resolution 54/13 B of 23 December 1999, the Advisory
Committee stated that:

“According to UNICEF, the payment of funds by UNICEF to Governments is
taken as an expenditure because the ownership of the funds is transferred to
the Government at the time the payment is made. The implication of accepting
this view is far wider than may have been understood by the UNICEF
administration, since the statement might be construed as implying that funds
transferred to Governments are grants to be used by Governments in a manner
of their choosing. The Committee points out that whereas Governments may
have custody of funds made available by UNICEF, they do not own the funds
and if the funds are not fully spent for the purposes intended by UNICEF, they
have to be refunded.”

7. In paragraph 31 of its report A/55/487 of 16 October 2000, the Advisory
Committee reiterated the views expressed in its report dated 6 October 1999.

8. Paragraphs 40-42 of the document outline the procedures concerning treatment
of disbursement as well as monitoring and oversight of the use of these resources.

9. The Advisory Committee points out that these procedures are, in a number of
cases post facto, such as, for example, the requirement that the responsible UNICEF
programme officer monitors whether the activities have been carried out; and that
any future payments to the same recipient are contingent on the submission of
financial and activity monitoring reports for any disbursement older than six
months.

10. The Advisory Committee points out that action taken with respect to future
disbursements does not ensure the proper treatment of funds already disbursed. In
this connection, the Advisory Committee was made aware of a clause in the master
plan of operations whereby any balance of funds unutilized or which could not be
used according to the original plan shall be reprogrammed by mutual consent
between the Government and UNICEF. The key question is what would happen to
the funds in the absence of an agreement? In the opinion of the Advisory
Committee, the problems engendered by the administration’s position that transfer
of ownership occurs with transfer of custody (i.e. disbursement of fund) remain
unaddressed. The Advisory Committee therefore reiterates its position as endorsed
by the General Assembly (see para. 6 above). In view of the seriousness of this
matter, the Advisory Committee intends to resume consideration when it takes up
the reports of the Board of Auditors in September 2002. In this connection, the



3
E/ICEF/2002/AB/L.6

Advisory Committee recalls that it had requested the Board of Auditors to ascertain
the extent to which the various control, reporting and certification functions are
being adequately performed.


