
United Nations E/ICEF/2004/AB/L.3

 

Economic and Social Council Distr.: Limited
25 May 2004

Original: English

For information

04-36563 (E)    020604

*0436563*

United Nations Children’s Fund
Executive Board
Annual session 2004
7-11 June 2004
Item 9 of the provisional agenda*

Timing of the approval of the UNICEF biennial
support budget

Report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and
Budgetary Questions

1. The Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions has
considered the report entitled “Timing of the approval of the UNICEF biennial
support budget” (E/ICEF/2004/AB/L.2). During its consideration of the report, the
Committee met with the Deputy Executive Director and other representatives of the
Executive Director.

2. The report of the Executive Director was prepared in response to Executive
Board decision 2003/17, in which the Board requested the Executive Director to
explore options for the timing of the approval of the biennial support budget in the
context of one of the existing regular Board sessions and to report to the Board on
this issue during the annual session of 2004.

3. In paragraphs 7-9 of the report, possible timelines options for the submission
of the biennial budget to the Executive Board are presented, taking into account that
at its annual session in June, the Executive Board reviews draft country programmes
and approves the aggregate totals of estimated regular resources and other resources
in the programme budget. Because the UNICEF secretariat would like to benefit
from the comments by the Board members made at the annual session, the Executive
Director believes that there is not sufficient time to review the management plan and
biennial budget for submission to the second regular session in September. Under
the current timetable of the integrated programme and budget planning and approval
process (see E/ICEF/2004/AB/L.2, annex), UNICEF aligns support budget resources
with approved programmes, taking into account the views

* E/ICEF/2004/8.



2
E/ICEF/2004/AB/L.3

of the Board during its annual session. The review includes decentralized reviews of
the country budgets by regional offices and a global review of regional and
headquarters offices’ budget proposals.

4. Two options that meet the requirement of the principle that has been a
cornerstone in the efforts of UNICEF to reform its budgetary process, i.e., that
programme plans should drive the support budget, are discussed below. Under the
current integrated programme and budget planning, whenever new country
programme plans are proposed, or existing programme plans are adjusted in the
course of a mid-term review, a country programme management plan must be
formulated to ensure that the management structure supports the country programme
(E/ICEF/2004/AB/L.2, para. 3 (a)).

5. The first option would be the submission of the biennial budget to the first
regular session of the Executive Board in January of the first year of the biennium.
UNICEF believes that this option would allow sufficient development and
articulation of the medium-term strategic plan (MTSP) and approval of the draft
country programme documents by the Executive Board at the annual session before
the management plan and the biennial budget are finalized. Implementation of this
option would require that an interim budget allocation should be approved by the
Executive Board at the second regular session to cover the one-month support costs
for January (E/ICEF/2004/AB/L.2, para. 8).

6. The second option would be the submission of the biennial budget to the
extraordinary budget session of the Executive Board in December of the year
preceding the new biennium. This option also allows sufficient time for articulation
of the MTSP, preparation of budgets, and approval of draft country programme
documents and review of budget proposals. In addition, the option would permit the
review and approval of the biennial budget before the financial period starts, not in
January, when the period has already begun. However, UNICEF believes that there
might not be sufficient time for informal consultations if the meeting of the
Executive Board in December coincides with the meetings of the General Assembly
(E/ICEF/2004/AB/L.2, para. 9).

7. In paragraph 11 of her report, the Executive Director recommends that the
Board decide that the biennial budget be reviewed at the first regular session in
January of the first year of the new biennium. Furthermore, the Executive Director
recommends that at the second regular session in September of the year preceding
the new biennium, the Executive Board should approve an advance allocation for
spending for the month of January, based upon the previous year’s expenditure in
January.

8. The Advisory Committee recalls its views as indicated in paragraph 6 of its
report E/ICEF/2000/AB/L.4 of 5 April 2000 on the timing of the submission of the
support budget to the Executive Board. The Committee indicated that although it
had concurred with the change from June to October of the submission of the budget
to the Committee in response to the new integrated budget process, as outlined in
document E/ICEF/2000/AB/L.3, paras. 9-15, in the opinion of the Committee, the
most appropriate time to discuss the budget would be before the financial period
starts, not in January, when the period has already begun. The Committee reiterates
its view that the review of the support budget should start before the beginning of
UNICEF’s financial period; moreover, the Committee is not convinced that holding



3
E/ICEF/2004/AB/L.3

the meeting in December would reduce the time available for informal
consultations.

9. The Committee notes that the timeline schedule presented in the annex to
E/ICEF/2004/AB/L.2 for the integrated programme and budget planning and
approval process has built-in flexibility to adjust the length of time needed for some
of the steps. For example, if needed, the Committee would review the UNICEF
budget at the start of its session in September rather than October of the year before
the beginning of the biennium, and the informal briefing with Executive Board
members on the budget proposals could be conducted in November, prior to the
meeting of the Executive Board in December.


